## Page 1

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

## 7.15.1. Atomic Write Flow

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Stage</th>
<th>Action</th>
<th>Action Flow</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td rowspan="2">1</td>
<td><strong>Invoke AtomicRequest</strong></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>Begins atomic write</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Return AtomicResponse</strong></td>
<td>Client ⇐ Server</td>
<td>Acknowledges beginning of atomic write or returns error</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="2">2</td>
<td><strong>Read/Write Request</strong></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>Reads or writes to attributes</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Repeated Read/Write Response</strong></td>
<td>Client ⇐ Server</td>
<td>Acknowledges write or errors</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="2">3</td>
<td><strong>Invoke AtomicRequest</strong></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>Commits or cancels atomic write</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Return AtomicResponse</strong></td>
<td>Client ⇐ Server</td>
<td>Acknowledges commit of atomic write or returns error</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Atomic writes have three stages:

1. The client requests to begin an atomic write by providing a list of attributes with the Atomic Write quality and a timeout for completing its expected writes
    a. The server responds with a list of attribute statuses, and possibly an alternative timeout
    b. If the client does not accept the statuses or the alternative timeout, then the client SHALL cancel the atomic write using a Rollback Write request.
2. Otherwise, the client makes a series of write requests to the attributes
    a. The server pends these writes in an internal buffer, potentially returning errors if a write can not possibly succeed during a commit
3. If the client no longer wants to continue, then it requests to roll back the atomic write; otherwise, the client requests to commit the atomic write
    a. The server evaluates all the writes, and either applies all of them or returns an error to the client, discarding the pending writes

## 7.15.2. Atomic Writer ID

An Atomic Writer ID is an Operational Node ID which identifies the client within the accessing fabric.

If the session context for the transaction is a Secure Session Context, the Atomic Writer ID SHALL be the Peer Node ID stored in the context.

If the session context for the transaction is a Groupcast Session Context, the Atomic Writer ID SHALL be invalid.

An Atomic Writer ID that is not a valid Operational Node ID SHALL be invalid.

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 448&lt;/page_number&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 2

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

# 7.15.3. Atomic Write State

An Atomic Write State associates a client with a set of atomic attributes on a server. It is the combination of:

1. An endpoint-no
2. A cluster-id
3. An Atomic Writer ID
4. The accessing fabric
5. A set of attrib-ids

An attribute on a given server cluster instance is associated with an Atomic Write State if the state's set of attrib-ids contains the ID of the attribute, the cluster-id matches the ID of the cluster instance and its endpoint-no matches the endpoint of cluster instance.

A client is associated with an Atomic Write State if both its Atomic Writer ID and accessing fabric match the Atomic Writer ID and accessing fabric of the client.

If a server receives a Write Request for an attribute that is not associated with an Atomic Write State that is also associated with the client making the request, the server SHALL return the error code INVALID_IN_STATE.

Reading an attribute with the Atomic quality from a client with an associated Atomic Write State SHALL return the current value of the attribute if the client has not successfully written to the attribute; if the client has written to the attribute while having an associated Atomic Write State, the server SHALL return the updated value of the attribute.

When writing to any attribute associated with an Atomic Write State, any integrity checks SHALL be evaluated in the context of the pending values of all the attributes associated with the Atomic Write State.

Any writes to attributes with the Atomic quality from a client associated with an Atomic Write State SHALL only be visible to that client until committed, and SHALL NOT have any effect on the operation of the server.

If a server receives a command which modifies an attribute with the Atomic quality while a client has an Atomic Write State containing the attrib-id of that attribute, it SHALL apply these changes as if there were no atomic write; this MAY cause the atomic write to fail when the client attempts to commit (see Commit Write).

# 7.15.4. AtomicRequestTypeEnum Type

This data type is derived from enum8.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Value</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Summary</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>BeginWrite</td>
<td>Begin an atomic write</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 449&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 3

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Value</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Summary</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>CommitWrite</td>
<td>Commit an atomic write</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>RollbackWrite</td>
<td>Rollback an atomic write, discarding any pending changes</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 7.15.5. AtomicAttributeStatusStruct Type

This struct indicates the status of an attribute during an atomic write.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>Attribut-eID</td>
<td>attrib-id</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Status-Code</td>
<td>status</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### 7.15.5.1. AttributeID Field

This field SHALL indicate the ID of the attribute with the associated StatusCode.

### 7.15.5.2. StatusCode Field

This field SHALL indicate the atomic status of an attribute.

## 7.15.6. AtomicRequest Command

This command is used to begin, commit or cancel an atomic write.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>Request-Type</td>
<td>AtomicRe-questType-Enum</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Attribut-eRequests</td>
<td>list[attrib-id]</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Timeout</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>desc</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### 7.15.6.1. RequestType Field

This field SHALL indicate the type of atomic request being made by the client.

### 7.15.6.2. AttributeRequests Field

This field SHALL indicate a list of attribute IDs the client wishes to write to during an atomic

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 450&lt;/page_number&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved. &lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 4

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

request.

**7.15.6.3. Timeout Field**

This field SHALL indicate an interval in milliseconds in which the client will either commit or rollback the atomic write. If the value of the RequestType field is BeginWrite, this field SHALL be included, otherwise it SHALL be omitted.

**7.15.6.4. Effect on Receipt**

If an AtomicRequest command is received without an accessing fabric, the server SHALL return a status code of INVALID_COMMAND.

If an AtomicRequest command is received with an Atomic Writer ID which is either unavailable or not a valid Operational Node ID, the server SHALL return a status code of INVALID_COMMAND.

For AtomicRequests with any RequestType:

1.  If the AttributeRequests field is empty, the server SHALL return an error code of INVALID_COMMAND.
2.  If the AttributeRequests field contains duplicate values, the server SHALL return an error code of INVALID_COMMAND.
3.  If the AttributeRequests contains attrib-ids for attributes not supported by the server, the server SHALL return an error code of INVALID_COMMAND.

**Begin Write**

If the RequestType of the AtomicRequest is BeginWrite, the server SHALL attempt to begin an atomic write and return an AtomicResponse:

1.  If the client is already associated with an Atomic Write State that is associated with any attributes on the same cluster and endpoint, the server SHALL return a status code of INVALID_IN_STATE.
2.  If the request does not have a Timeout Field, the server SHALL return an error code of INVALID_COMMAND.
3.  Otherwise, the server SHALL return an AtomicResponse:
    a. For each attrib-id in AttributeRequests, the server SHALL return a matching AtomicAttributeStatusStruct in AttributeStatus:
        i. If the client does not have sufficient privilege to write to the attribute, the status SHALL be UNSUPPORTED_ACCESS.
        ii. If the specified attribute does not support atomic writes, the status SHALL be INVALID_COMMAND.
        iii. If the specified attribute is currently being used by a different atomic write, the status SHALL be BUSY.
        iv. If the server does not have enough resources to pend writes to the attribute, the status SHALL be RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED.

&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 451&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 5

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

v. Otherwise, the status SHALL be SUCCESS to indicate that the attribute is available for writing.

b. For internal reasons, a server MAY implement atomic writes for a set of attributes with a shared resource, such that beginning an atomic write to any of the attributes in the set requires including all of the attributes in the set. If attributes other than the requested attributes are included in an atomic write, the server SHALL return statuses for those attributes as if they had been requested.

c. Subsequent invocations of AtomicRequest of type Commit Write or Rollback Write MUST provide the attrib-ids returned in AttributeStatus, not the attrib-ids requested in AttributeRequests.

d. If any of the requested attributes have a status code other than SUCCESS, the StatusCode of the AtomicResponse SHALL be FAILURE.
    i. The server SHALL NOT associate an Atomic Write State with the client.
    ii. Depending on the status codes received for individual attributes, the client MAY choose to try again; e.g. if the attribute the client was attempting to write to has status BUSY, the client could attempt to write to it again after a pause.

e. Otherwise, the StatusCode SHALL be SUCCESS.
    i. The server SHALL create an Atomic Write State with the endpoint number and ID of the cluster instance handling the AtomicRequest command, the accessing fabric, the Atomic Writer ID, and the set of attrib-ids returned.
    ii. If the requested timeout is longer than the maximum timeout the server allows for the requested set of attributes, the server MAY return the maximum timeout for the requested set of attributes in the Timeout field. Otherwise, the server SHALL return the requested timeout in the Timeout field.
    iii. If the server does not receive a matching AtomicRequest with a RequestType of CommitWrite from the associated client before the timeout provided by the server in the AtomicResponse, the server SHALL roll back any pending writes and discard the atomic write.

Commit Write

If the RequestType of the AtomicRequest is CommitWrite, the server SHALL attempt to commit any pending writes and return an AtomicResponse:

1. If the client is not associated with an Atomic Write State whose endpoint-no and cluster-id match the endpoint number and ID of the cluster instance handling the request, and whose set of attrib-ids match the attrib-ids requested, irrespective of order, the server SHALL return an error code of INVALID_IN_STATE.

2. The server SHALL process all pending writes to the requested atomic attributes as if they had arrived in a single message.

3. The server SHALL create a list of attribute statuses for each attribute that would be modified by the processing of the atomic write:
    a. If the server is able to determine that the atomic write will not succeed, the status code SHALL indicate the error code that would have been received on the first failed write to that

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 452&lt;/page_number&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 6

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

attribute.

i. For example, if a write is an attempt to replace a list, but the data version has changed since the atomic write began due to a command invocation, the status code would be DATA_VERSION_MISMATCH.

b. Otherwise, the status code SHALL be SUCCESS.

4. If the status code of any AtomicAttributeStatusStruct in the list is not SUCCESS, then the server SHALL:
a. Discard all pending writes to the attributes associated with the Atomic Write State associated with the client
b. Discard the Atomic Write State associated with the client
c. Return an AtomicResponse with the list of attribute statuses and an atomic status code of FAILURE.

5. Otherwise, if the writes would collectively violate a constraint, then the server SHALL:
a. Discard all pending writes to the attributes associated with the Atomic Write State associated with the client
b. Discard the Atomic Write State associated with the client
c. Return an AtomicResponse with the list of attribute statuses and an atomic status code of CONSTRAINT_ERROR.

6. Otherwise, the server SHALL:
a. Create a list of attribute statuses for each attribute referenced by a pending write
b. Attempt to apply all pending writes to the attributes in the Atomic Write State associated with the client:
    i. For each pending write, write the pending value to the attribute, and store the returned status code in the status code field on the attribute status whose AttributeID matches the ID of the attribute.
    ii. If any pending write fails, return an AtomicResponse with an atomic status code of FAILURE and the list of attribute statuses.
    iii. Otherwise, return an AtomicResponse with an atomic status code of SUCCESS and an empty list of attribute statuses.
c. Discard the Atomic Write State associated with the client

**Rollback Write**

If the RequestType of the AtomicRequest is RollbackWrite, the server SHALL attempt to rollback any pending writes and return an AtomicResponse.

1. If the client is not associated with an Atomic Write State whose endpoint-no and cluster-id match the endpoint number and ID of the cluster instance handling the request, and whose set of attrib-ids match the attrib-ids requested, irrespective of order, the server SHALL return an error code of INVALID_IN_STATE.

2. Otherwise, the server SHALL:

&lt;img&gt;CSA logo&lt;/img&gt;
<footer>Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.</footer>&lt;page_number&gt;Page 453&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 7

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

a. Discard all pending writes to the attributes associated with the Atomic Write State associated with the client
b. Discard the Atomic Write State associated with the client
c. Return an AtomicResponse with an atomic status code of SUCCESS.

## 7.15.7. AtomicResponse Command

The AtomicResponse command is sent by a server in response to an AtomicRequest command.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>StatusCode</td>
<td>status</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>AttributeS-status</td>
<td>list[Atomi-cAttributeS-tatusStruct]</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Timeout</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>desc</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### 7.15.7.1. StatusCode Field

This field SHALL indicate the status of the atomic write. See AtomicRequest.

### 7.15.7.2. AttributeStatus Field

This field SHALL indicate a list of statuses for the attributes involved in the atomic write. This list SHALL contain a status for each of the attribute IDs provided in the AtomicRequest. See AtomicRequest.

### 7.15.7.3. Timeout Field

This field SHALL indicate an effective timeout provided by the server. If the value of the RequestType field in the AtomicRequest is BeginWrite, this field SHALL be included, otherwise it SHALL be omitted. See AtomicRequest.

## 7.16. Device Type

In this architecture model, a device type is the highest semantic element. A device type defines conformance for a set of one or more endpoints. A device type defines a set of requirements for the node or endpoint in the market.

A device type SHALL define the cluster support for an endpoint. A composed device type MAY define one or more other device types as part of the composed device type.

A device type definition MAY define or use predefined conditions from requirements, limitations and/or capabilities of the node. A device type definition MAY define or use predefined conditions on one or more underlying stack standard(s).

A device type MAY define support of a cluster as dependent upon a condition. A device type defini-

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 454&lt;/page_number&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved. &lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;