## 9.5. Water Heater Management Cluster

This cluster is used to allow clients to control the operation of a hot water heating appliance so that

Page 746



it can be used with energy management.

Heating of hot water is one of the main energy uses in homes, and when coupled with the Energy Management cluster, it can help consumers save cost (e.g. using power at cheaper times or from local solar PV generation).

### 9.5.1. Revision History

The global ClusterRevision attribute value SHALL be the highest revision number in the table below.

| Revision | Description                            |
|----------|----------------------------------------|
| 1        | Initial revision                       |
| 2        | Added events and simplified data types |

### 9.5.2. Classification

| Hierarchy | Role        | Scope    | PICS Code |
|-----------|-------------|----------|-----------|
| Base      | Application | Endpoint | EWATERHTR |

### 9.5.3. Cluster ID

| ID     | Name                    |
|--------|-------------------------|
| 0x0094 | Water Heater Management |

### 9.5.4. Features

This cluster SHALL support the FeatureMap bitmap attribute as defined below.

| Bit | Code | Feature          | Conformance | Summary                                                     |
|-----|------|------------------|-------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| 0   | EM   | EnergyManagement | 0           | Allows energy management control of the tank                |
| 1   | TP   | TankPercent      | 0           | Supports monitoring the percentage of hot water in the tank |

### 9.5.5. Dependencies

This cluster SHALL be on an endpoint that also includes the Thermostat cluster as this cluster is dependent on the Thermostat cluster.




Page 747



## 9.5.6. Data Types

### 9.5.6.1. WaterHeaterHeatSourceBitmap Type

This data type is derived from map8.

| Bit | Name              | Summary                          | Conformance |
|-----|-------------------|----------------------------------|-------------|
| 0   | ImmersionElement1 | Immersion Heating Element 1      | M           |
| 1   | ImmersionElement2 | Immersion Heating Element 2      | M           |
| 2   | HeatPump          | Heat pump Heating                | M           |
| 3   | Boiler            | Boiler Heating (e.g. Gas or Oil) | M           |
| 4   | Other             | Other Heating                    | M           |

### 9.5.6.2. BoostStateEnum Type

This data type is derived from enum8.

| Value | Name     | Summary                       | Conformance |
|-------|----------|-------------------------------|-------------|
| 0     | Inactive | Boost is not currently active | M           |
| 1     | Active   | Boost is currently active     | M           |

### 9.5.6.3. WaterHeaterBoostInfoStruct Type

| ID | Name              | Type        | Constraint           | Quality | Fallback | Access | Conformance         |
|----|-------------------|-------------|----------------------|---------|----------|--------|---------------------|
| 0  | Duration          | elapsed-s   | min 1                |         |          |        | M                   |
| 1  | OneShot           | bool        | all                  |         | False    |        | [!TP], [TP].a-      |
| 2  | EmergencyBoost    | bool        | all                  |         | False    |        | O                   |
| 3  | TemporarySetpoint | temperature | desc                 |         |          |        | O                   |
| 4  | TargetPercentage  | percent     | all                  |         |          |        | TargetRe-heat, [TP] |
| 5  | TargetRe-heat     | percent     | max TargetPercentage |         |          |        | [TP].a-             |

Page 748







#### 9.5.6.3.1. Duration Field

This field SHALL indicate the time period, in seconds, for which the boost state is activated.

#### 9.5.6.3.2. OneShot Field

This field SHALL indicate whether the boost state SHALL be automatically canceled once the hot water has reached either:

- the set point temperature (from the thermostat cluster)
- the [TemporarySetpoint](#) temperature (if specified)
- the [TargetPercentage](#) (if specified).

#### 9.5.6.3.3. EmergencyBoost Field

This field SHALL indicate that the consumer wants the water to be heated quickly. This MAY cause multiple heat sources to be activated (e.g. a heat pump and direct electric immersion heating element).

The choice of which heat sources are activated is manufacturer specific.

#### 9.5.6.3.4. TemporarySetpoint Field

This field SHALL indicate the target temperature to which the water will be heated.

If included, it SHALL be used instead of the thermostat cluster set point temperature whilst the boost state is activated.

The value of this field SHALL be within the constraints of the MinHeatSetpointLimit and MaxHeatSetpointLimit attributes (inclusive), of the thermostat cluster.

#### 9.5.6.3.5. TargetPercentage Field

This field SHALL indicate the target percentage of hot water in the tank that the TankPercentage attribute must reach before the heating is switched off.

#### 9.5.6.3.6. TargetReheat Field

This field SHALL indicate the percentage to which the hot water in the tank SHALL be allowed to fall before again beginning to reheat it.

For example if the [TargetPercentage](#) was 80%, and the [TargetReheat](#) was 40%, then after initial heating to 80% hot water, the tank may have hot water drawn off until only 40% hot water remains. At this point the heater will begin to heat back up to 80% of hot water. If this field and the [OneShot](#) field were both omitted, heating would begin again after any water draw which reduced the [TankPercentage](#) below 80%.

This field SHALL be less than or equal to the [TargetPercentage](#) field.




Page 749



## 9.5.7. Attributes

| ID     | Name                         | Type                            | Constraint | Quality | Fallback | Access | Conformance |
|--------|------------------------------|---------------------------------|------------|---------|----------|--------|-------------|
| 0x0000 | <b>HeaterTypes</b>           | Water-Heater-Heat-SourceBit map | all        | F       |          | R V    | M           |
| 0x0001 | <b>HeatDemand</b>            | Water-Heater-Heat-SourceBit map | all        |         |          | R V    | M           |
| 0x0002 | <b>TankVolume</b>            | uint16                          | all        |         |          | R V    | EM          |
| 0x0003 | <b>EstimatedHeatRequired</b> | energy-mWh                      | min 0      |         |          | R V    | EM          |
| 0x0004 | <b>TankPercentage</b>        | percent                         | all        |         |          | R V    | TP          |
| 0x0005 | <b>BoostState</b>            | BoostStateEnum                  | all        |         |          | R V    | M           |

### 9.5.7.1. HeaterTypes Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate the heat sources that the water heater can call on for heating. If a bit is set then the water heater supports the corresponding heat source.

### 9.5.7.2. HeatDemand Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate if the water heater is heating water. If a bit is set then the corresponding heat source is active.

### 9.5.7.3. TankVolume Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate the volume of water that the hot water tank can hold (in units of Litres). This allows an energy management system to estimate the required heating energy needed to reach the target temperature.

### 9.5.7.4. EstimatedHeatRequired Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate the estimated heat energy needed to raise the water temperature to the target setpoint. This can be computed by taking the specific heat capacity of water (4182 J/kg °C) and by knowing the current temperature of the water, the tank volume and target temperature.

Page 750



For example, if the target temperature was 60°C, the current temperature was 20°C and the tank volume was 100L:

|                      |                                                                        |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mass of water        | = 1kg per Litre                                                        |
| Total Mass           | = 100 x 1kg = 100kg                                                    |
| $\Delta$ Temperature | = (target temperature - current temperature)<br>= (60°C - 20°C) = 40°C |

Energy required to  
heat the water to 60°C =  $4182 \times 40 \times 100 = 16,728,000$  J

Converting Joules in to Wh of heat (divide by 3600):  
=  $16,728,000 \text{ J} / 3600$   
= 4647 Wh (4.65kWh)

If the TankPercent feature is supported, then this estimate SHALL also take into account the percentage of the water in the tank which is already hot.

#### NOTE

The electrical energy required to heat the water depends on the heating system used to heat the water. For example, a direct electric immersion heating element can be close to 100% efficient, so the electrical energy needed to heat the hot water is nearly the same as the EstimatedHeatEnergyRequired. However some forms of heating, such as an air-source heat pump which extracts heat from ambient air, requires much less electrical energy to heat hot water. Heat pumps can produce 3kWh of heat output for 1kWh of electrical energy input. The conversion between heat energy and electrical energy is outside the scope of this cluster.

### 9.5.7.5. TankPercentage Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate an approximate level of hot water stored in the tank, which might help consumers understand the amount of hot water remaining in the tank. The accuracy of this attribute is manufacturer specific.

In most hot water tanks, there is a stratification effect where the hot water layer rests above a cooler layer of water below. For this reason cold water is fed in at the bottom of the tank and the hot water is drawn from the top.

Some water tanks might use multiple temperature probes to estimate the level of the hot water layer. A water heater with multiple temperature probes is likely to implement an algorithm to estimate the hot water tank percentage by taking into account the temperature values of each probe to determine the height of the hot water.

However it might be possible with a single temperature probe to estimate how much hot water is left using a simpler algorithm:



Page 751



For example, if the target temperature was 60°C, the `CurrentTemperature` was 40°C from a single temperature probe measuring the average water temperature and the temperature of incoming cold water (`COLD_WATER_TEMP`) was assumed to be 20°C:

```
TankPercentage = int(((current temperature - COLD_WATER_TEMP) / (target
temperature - COLD_WATER_TEMP)) * 100)
TankPercentage = min( max(TankPercentage,0), 100)
```

```
TankPercentage = 50%
```

#### 9.5.7.6. BoostState Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate whether the Boost, as triggered by a [Boost command](#), is currently [Active](#) or [Inactive](#).

See [Section 9.5.8.1, “Boost Command”](#) and [Section 9.5.8.2, “CancelBoost Command”](#) for more details.

### 9.5.8. Commands

| ID   | Name        | Direction                   | Response | Access | Conformance |
|------|-------------|-----------------------------|----------|--------|-------------|
| 0x00 | Boost       | client $\Rightarrow$ server | Y        | M      | M           |
| 0x01 | CancelBoost | client $\Rightarrow$ server | Y        | M      | M           |

#### 9.5.8.1. Boost Command

Allows a client to request that the water heater is put into a Boost state.

| ID | Name             | Type                         | Constraint | Quality | Fallback | Conformance |
|----|------------------|------------------------------|------------|---------|----------|-------------|
| 0  | <b>BoostInfo</b> | Water-HeaterBoost-InfoStruct | all        |         |          | M           |

##### 9.5.8.1.1. Effect on receipt

On receipt of this command, this SHALL allow the water heater to attempt to heat the water, which may override other settings, for example, if the Water Heater Mode is set to [Off](#), or [Timed](#) and it is during one of the Off periods.

If the duration field is too short for the water heater to accept, for example a heat pump may take several minutes to ramp up in operation, then the boost command SHALL be rejected with a status of `INVALID_IN_STATE`.

If successful, the value of the [BoostState](#) attribute SHALL transition to [Active](#), and a response with

Page 752







status of SUCCESS SHALL be returned, and a [BoostStarted](#) event SHALL be generated to include the field values received in the command.

The water in the tank SHALL be heated until one of the following conditions is met:

- the temperature reaches the set point in the corresponding thermostat cluster or the [TemporarySetpoint](#) (if included)
- the [TankPercentage](#) attribute value reaches the [TargetPercentage](#) (if it was included)

If [OneShot](#) is specified then once the hot water has reached the set point temperature (or the [TemporarySetpoint](#) temperature, if specified) or the [TargetPercentage](#) (if specified), or the boost command's duration times out after the specified [Duration](#), then [BoostState](#) transitions to [Inactive](#). This SHALL cause the [BoostEnded](#) event to be generated.

If the Water Heater was already in the [BoostState](#) 'Active' when this command is received, it SHALL continue in this [BoostState](#), but SHALL discard the effect of the values of the fields from the previous [Boost](#) commands, and SHALL continue with the values of the fields from the new [Boost](#) command. A new [BoostStarted](#) event SHALL be generated to include the field values received in the new command.

#### 9.5.8.2. CancelBoost Command

Allows a client to cancel an ongoing Boost operation.

This command has no payload.

##### 9.5.8.2.1. Effect on receipt

If the [BoostState](#) attribute value was already [Inactive](#) when this command is received, the [BoostState](#) attribute value shall remain [Inactive](#) and the server SHALL return SUCCESS.

Otherwise the Water Heater SHALL transition the [BoostState](#) to [Inactive](#), generate a [BoostEnded](#) event, and the water heating reverts to being controlled through the current Water Heater Mode (e.g. [Off](#), [Manual](#) or [Timed](#)).

#### 9.5.9. Events

| ID   | Name                         | Priority | Quality | Access | Conformance |
|------|------------------------------|----------|---------|--------|-------------|
| 0x00 | <a href="#">BoostStarted</a> | INFO     |         | V      | M           |
| 0x01 | <a href="#">BoostEnded</a>   | INFO     |         | V      | M           |

##### 9.5.9.1. BoostStarted Event

This event SHALL be generated whenever a [Boost](#) command is accepted.




Page 753



| ID | Name      | Type                       | Constraint | Quality | Fallback | Conformance |
|----|-----------|----------------------------|------------|---------|----------|-------------|
| 0  | BoostInfo | WaterHeaterBoostInfoStruct | all        |         |          | M           |

The corresponding structure fields within the [WaterHeaterBoostInfoStruct](#) are copied from the [Boost](#) command.

#### 9.5.9.2. BoostEnded Event

This event SHALL be generated whenever the [BoostState](#) transitions from [Active](#) to [Inactive](#).
