## Page 1

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>ListID</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>NodeID</td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

ListID represents the unique identifier for the ACL to be removed from the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

NodeID represents the unique identifier for the node from which the ACL is to be removed.

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:

1. Confirm that a Node Information Entry exists for the given NodeID, and if not, return NOT_FOUND.
2. Ensure the ACL List for the Node Information Entry with the given NodeID does not include the given ACLEntry. If it does:
    a. Update the status to DeletePending for the given ACLEntry in the ACL List.
    b. Remove this ACLEntry from the given Node ID.
        i. If this succeeds, remove the given ACLEntry from the ACL List.
        ii. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent Node Refresh.

# 11.25. Joint Fabric PKI Cluster

An instance of the Joint Fabric PKI Cluster only applies to Joint Fabric Administrator nodes fulfilling the role of Anchor CA.

NOTE Support for Joint Fabric PKI Cluster is provisional.

## 11.25.1. Revision History

The global ClusterRevision attribute value SHALL be the highest revision number in the table below.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Revision</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Initial revision</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 11.25.2. Classification

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Hierarchy</th>
<th>Role</th>
<th>Scope</th>
<th>PICS Code</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Base</td>
<td>Utility</td>
<td>Node</td>
<td>JFPKI</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 11.25.3. Cluster ID

&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1047&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 2

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0x0753</td>
<td>Joint Fabric PKI</td>
<td>P</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 11.25.4. Data Types

### 11.25.4.1. ICAC Signing Request Status Enum Type

This data type is derived from enum8.

This enumeration is used by the ICACSRResponse command to convey the detailed outcome of this cluster’s ICACSRRequest command.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Value</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Summary</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>OK</td>
<td>No error</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>InvalidIcaCsrFormat</td>
<td>The ICACSR in the request is not compliant to PKCS #10 rules</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>InvalidIcaCsrSignature</td>
<td>The ICACSR in the request has an incorrect signature</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>FailedDCLVendorId-Validation</td>
<td>DCL Vendor ID validation failed</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>NotAnIcac</td>
<td>DCL returned certificate is not an ICAC</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>BusyAnchorTransfer</td>
<td>Error due to an in progress Anchor Transfer</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>IcaCsrSigningFailed</td>
<td>Signing the ICA CSR failed</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>IcaCsrRequestNoUser-Consent</td>
<td>No user consent</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### 11.25.4.2. Transfer Anchor Response Status Enum Type

This data type is derived from <<ref_DataTypeEnum, enum8>>.

This enumeration is used by the TransferAnchorResponse command to convey the detailed outcome of this cluster’s TransferAnchorRequest command.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Value</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Summary</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>OK</td>
<td>No error</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1048&lt;/page_number&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved. &lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 3

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Value</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Summary</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>TransferAnchorStatusDatastoreBusy</td>
<td>Anchor Transfer was not started due to ongoing Datastore operations</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>TransferAnchorStatusNoUserConsent</td>
<td>User has not consented for Anchor Transfer</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 11.25.5. Commands

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Direction</th>
<th>Response</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0x00</td>
<td>ICACSRRequest</td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>ICACSRResponse</td>
<td>A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x01</td>
<td>ICACSRResponse</td>
<td>Server ⇒ Client</td>
<td>N</td>
<td>A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x02</td>
<td>TransferAnchorRequest</td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>TransferAnchorResponse</td>
<td>A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x03</td>
<td>TransferAnchorResponse</td>
<td>Server ⇒ Client</td>
<td>N</td>
<td>A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x04</td>
<td>TransferAnchorComplete</td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>Y</td>
<td>A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### 11.25.5.1. ICACSRRequest Command

This command SHALL be generated and executed during the Joint Commissioning Method steps and subsequently respond in the form of an ICACSRResponse command.

Check ICA Cross Signing for details about the generation and contents of the ICACSR.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>ICACSR</td>
<td>octstr</td>
<td>max 400</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### 11.25.5.2. ICACSRResponse Command

This command SHALL be generated in response to the ICACSRRequest command.

Check ICA Cross Signing for details about the generation and contents of ICAC.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>StatusCode</td>
<td>IcacsrRequestStatusEnum</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1049&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 4

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>ICAC</td>
<td>octstr</td>
<td>max 400</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>O</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**StatusCode Field**

This field SHALL contain an ICACSRRequestStatusEnum value representing the status of the Section 11.25.5.1, “ICACSRRequest Command” operation.

**ICAC Field**

If present, it SHALL contain the NOC Issuer Certificate in PEM format.

**11.25.5.3. Transfer Anchor Request Command**

This command SHALL be sent by a candidate Joint Fabric Anchor Administrator to the current Joint Fabric Anchor Administrator to request transfer of the Anchor Fabric.

**11.25.5.4. Transfer Anchor Response Command**

This command SHALL be generated in response to the Transfer Anchor Request command.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>StatusCode</td>
<td>TransferAnchorResponseStatusEnum</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**11.25.5.5. Transfer Anchor Complete Command**

This command SHALL indicate the completion of the transfer of the Anchor Fabric to another Joint Fabric Ecosystem Administrator.

**11.26. Commissioner Control Cluster**

The Commissioner Control Cluster supports the ability for clients to request the commissioning of themselves or other nodes onto a fabric which the cluster server can commission onto. An example use case is ecosystem to ecosystem Fabric Synchronization setup.

The generalized flow supported by the Commissioner Control Cluster can be seen in the following diagram.

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1050&lt;/page_number&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved. &lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

