### 11.24.7.20. RemoveACLFromNode Command

This command SHALL be used to remove an ACL from a node in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster of the accessing fabric.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th>ID</th>
        <th>Name</th>
        <th>Type</th>
        <th>Constraint</th>
        <th>Quality</th>
        <th>Fallback</th>
        <th>Conformance</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>0</td>
        <td>ListID</td>
        <td>uint16</td>
        <td>all</td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
        <td>M</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>1</td>
        <td>NodeID</td>
        <td>node-id</td>
        <td>all</td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
        <td>M</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

ListID represents the unique identifier for the DatastoreACLEntryStruct to be removed from the Datastore’s list of DatastoreACLEntry.

NodeID represents the unique identifier for the node from which the ACL is to be removed.

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:

1.  Confirm that a Node Information Entry exists for the given NodeID, and if not, return NOT_FOUND.
2.  Ensure the ACL List for the given NodeID does not include the given ACLEntry. If it does:
    a. Update the status to `DeletePending` for the given ACLEntry in the ACL List.
    b. Remove this ACLEntry from the given Node ID.
        i. If this succeeds, remove the given ACLEntry from the Node ACL List.
        ii. If not successful, update the Status to `CommitFailed` and the FailureCode to the returned error. The error SHALL be handled in a subsequent Node Refresh.

## 11.25. Joint Fabric Administrator Cluster

An instance of the Joint Fabric Administrator Cluster only applies to Joint Fabric Administrator nodes fulfilling the role of Anchor CA.

> **NOTE**
>
> Support for Joint Fabric Administrator Cluster is provisional.

### 11.25.1. Revision History

The global ClusterRevision attribute value SHALL be the highest revision number in the table below.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th>Revision</th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>1</td>
        <td>Initial revision</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### 11.25.2. Classification

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th>Hierarchy</th>
        <th>Role</th>
        <th>Scope</th>
        <th>PICS Code</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Base</td>
        <td>Utility</td>
        <td>Node</td>
        <td>JFPKI</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### 11.25.3. Cluster ID

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th>ID</th>
        <th>Name</th>
        <th>Conformance</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>0x0753</td>
        <td>Joint Fabric Administrator</td>
        <td>P</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### 11.25.4. Data Types

#### 11.25.4.1. ICACResponseStatusEnum Type

This data type is derived from `enum8`.

This enumeration is used by the `AddICAC` command to convey the outcome of this cluster’s operations.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th>Value</th>
        <th>Name</th>
        <th>Summary</th>
        <th>Conformance</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>0</td>
        <td>OK</td>
        <td>No error</td>
        <td>M</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>1</td>
        <td>InvalidPublicKey</td>
        <td>Public Key in the ICAC is invalid</td>
        <td>M</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>2</td>
        <td>InvalidICAC</td>
        <td>ICAC chain validation failed / ICAC DN Encoding rules verification failed</td>
        <td>M</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### 11.25.4.2. TransferAnchorResponseStatusEnum Type

This data type is derived from `enum8`.

This enumeration is used by the `TransferAnchorResponse` command to convey the detailed outcome of this cluster’s `TransferAnchorRequest` command.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th>Value</th>
        <th>Name</th>
        <th>Summary</th>
        <th>Conformance</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>0</td>
        <td>OK</td>
        <td>No error</td>
        <td>M</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>1</td>
        <td>TransferAnchorStatusDatastoreBusy</td>
        <td>Anchor Transfer was not started due to ongoing Datastore operations</td>
        <td>M</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>2</td>
        <td>TransferAnchorStatusNoUserConsent</td>
        <td>User has not consented for Anchor Transfer</td>
        <td>M</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## 11.25.5. Status Codes

### 11.25.5.1. StatusCodeEnum Type

This data type is derived from `enum8`.

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Value</td>
        <td>Name</td>
        <td>Summary</td>
        <td>Conformance</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>0x02</th>
        <th>Busy</th>
        <th>Could not be completed because another commissioning is in progress</th>
        <th>P, M</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>0x03</th>
        <th>PAKEParameterError</th>
        <th>Provided PAKE parameters were incorrectly formatted or otherwise invalid</th>
        <th>P, M</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>0x04</th>
        <th>WindowNotOpen</th>
        <th>No commissioning window was currently open</th>
        <th>P, M</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>0x05</th>
        <th>VIDNotVerified</th>
        <th>ICACCSRRequest command has been invoked by a peer against which Fabric Table VID Verification hasn’t been executed</th>
        <th>P, M</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>0x06</th>
        <th>InvalidAdministratorFabricIndex</th>
        <th>OpenJointCommissioningWindow command has been invoked but the Administrator-FabricIndex field has the value of null</th>
        <th>P, M</th>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## 11.25.6. Attributes

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>ID</td>
        <td>Name</td>
        <td>Type</td>
        <td>Constraint</td>
        <td>Quality</td>
        <td>Default</td>
        <td>Access</td>
        <td>Conformance</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>0x00</th>
        <th>AdministratorFabricIndex</th>
        <th>fabric-idx</th>
        <th>1 to 254</th>
        <th>X</th>
        <th></th>
        <th>A</th>
        <th>P, M</th>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### 11.25.6.1. AdministratorFabricIndex

The AdministratorFabricIndex attribute SHALL indicate the FabricIndex from the Endpoint 0’s Operational Cluster Fabrics attribute (i.e. the Fabric Table) which is associated with the JointFabric. This field SHALL have the value of null if there is no fabric associated with the JointFabric.

### 11.25.7. Commands

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th>ID</th>
        <th>Name</th>
        <th>Direction</th>
        <th>Response</th>
        <th>Access</th>
        <th>Conformance</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>0x00</td>
        <td>ICACCSRRequest</td>
        <td>client ⇒ server</td>
        <td>ICACCSRResponse</td>
        <td>A</td>
        <td>P, M</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>0x01</td>
        <td>ICACCSRResponse</td>
        <td>client ⇐ server</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td></td>
        <td>P, M</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>0x02</td>
        <td>AddICAC</td>
        <td>client ⇒ server</td>
        <td>ICACResponse</td>
        <td>A</td>
        <td>P, M</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>0x03</td>
        <td>ICACResponse</td>
        <td>client ⇐ server</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td></td>
        <td>P, M</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>0x04</td>
        <td>OpenJoint-CommissioningWindow</td>
        <td>client ⇒ server</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>A</td>
        <td>P, M</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>0x05</td>
        <td>TransferAnchorRequest</td>
        <td>client ⇒ server</td>
        <td>TransferAnchorResponse</td>
        <td>A</td>
        <td>P, M</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>0x06</td>
        <td>TransferAnchorResponse</td>
        <td>client ⇐ server</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>A</td>
        <td>P, M</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>0x07</td>
        <td>TransferAnchorComplete</td>
        <td>client ⇒ server</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>A</td>
        <td>P, M</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>0x08</td>
        <td>Announce-JointFabricAdministrator</td>
        <td>client ⇒ server</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>A</td>
        <td>P, M</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### 11.25.7.1. ICACCSRRequest Command

This command SHALL be generated during Joint Commissioning Method and subsequently be responded in the form of an ICACCSRResponse command.

**Effect on Receipt**

This command SHALL be received over a CASE session otherwise it SHALL fail with an INVALID_COMMAND status code.

If this command is received without an armed fail-safe context (see Section 11.10.7.2, “ArmFailSafe”), then this command SHALL fail with a FAILSAFE_REQUIRED status code sent back to the initiator.

If the Fabric Table Vendor ID Verification Procedure has not been executed against the initiator of this command, the command SHALL fail with a JfVidNotVerified status code SHALL be sent back to the initiator.

If a prior AddICAC command was successfully executed within the fail-safe timer period, then this command SHALL fail with a CONSTRAINT_ERROR status code sent back to the initiator.

#### 11.25.7.2. ICACCSRResponse Command

This command SHALL be generated in response to a ICACCSRRequest command.

Check ICAC Cross Signing for details about the generation of the ICACCSR.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th>ID</th>
        <th>Name</th>
        <th>Type</th>
        <th>Constraint</th>
        <th>Quality</th>
        <th>Default</th>
        <th>Conformance</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>0</td>
        <td>ICACCSR</td>
        <td>octstr</td>
        <td>max 600</td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
        <td>M</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### ICACCSR field

This field SHALL be a DER-encoded octet string of a properly encoded PKCS #10 Certificate Signing Request (CSR).

### 11.25.7.3. AddICAC Command

This command SHALL be generated and executed during Joint Commissioning Method and subsequently be responded in the form of an ICACResponse command.

A Commissioner or Administrator SHALL issue this command after issuing the ICACCSRRequest command and receiving its response.

A Commissioner or Administrator SHALL issue this command after performing the Attestation Procedure, Fabric Table VID Verification and after validating that the peer is authorized to act as an Administrator in its own Fabric.

Check ICA Cross Signing for details about the generation of ICACValue.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th>ID</th>
        <th>Name</th>
        <th>Type</th>
        <th>Constraint</th>
        <th>Quality</th>
        <th>Default</th>
        <th>Conformance</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>1</td>
        <td>ICACValue</td>
        <td>octstr</td>
        <td>max 400</td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
        <td>M</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### ICACValue Field

This field SHALL contain an ICAC encoded using Matter Certificate Encoding.

#### Effect on Receipt

This command SHALL be received over a CASE session otherwise it SHALL fail with an INVALID_COMMAND status code.

If this command is received without an armed fail-safe context (see Section 11.10.7.2, "ArmFailSafe"), then this command SHALL fail with a FAILSAFE_REQUIRED status code sent back to the initiator.

If a prior AddICAC command was successfully executed within the fail-safe timer period, then this command SHALL fail with a CONSTRAINT_ERROR status code sent back to the initiator.

Upon receipt, the ICACValue SHALL be validated in the following ways:

1. Verify the ICAC using `Crypto_VerifyChain(certificates = [ICACValue, RootCACertificate])` where RootCACertificate is the associated RCAC of the accessing fabric. If this check fails, the error status SHALL be InvalidICAC.

2. The public key of the ICAC SHALL match the public key present in the last ICACCSRResponse provided to the Administrator that sent the AddICAC command. If this check fails, the error status SHALL be InvalidPublicKey.
3. The DN Encoding Rules SHALL be validated for the ICAC. If this check fails, the error status SHALL be InvalidICAC.

If any of the above validation checks fail, the server SHALL immediately respond to the client with an ICACResponse. The StatusCode field of the ICACResponse SHALL be set to the error status value specified in the above validation checks.

If all the checks succeed, then the ICACValue SHALL be used as described in the Joint Commissioning Method.

### 11.25.7.4. ICACResponse Command

This command SHALL be generated in response to the AddICAC command.

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>ID</td>
        <td>Name</td>
        <td>Type</td>
        <td>Constraint</td>
        <td>Quality</td>
        <td>Default</td>
        <td>Conformance</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>0</th>
        <th>StatusCode</th>
        <th>ICACRe-sponseSta-tusEnum</th>
        <th></th>
        <th></th>
        <th></th>
        <th>M</th>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### StatusCode Field

This field SHALL contain an ICACResponseStatusEnum value representing the status of the AddICAC operation.

### 11.25.7.5. OpenJointCommissioningWindow Command

> **NOTE**
>
> This is an alias onto the OpenCommissioningWindow command within the Joint Fabric Administrator Cluster. Refer to the OpenCommissioningWindow command for a description of the command behavior and parameters.

This command SHALL fail with a InvalidAdministratorFabricIndex status code sent back to the initiator if the AdministratorFabricIndex attribute has the value of null.

The parameters for OpenJointCommissioningWindow command are as follows:

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>ID</td>
        <td>Name</td>
        <td>Type</td>
        <td>Constraint</td>
        <td>Quality</td>
        <td>Default</td>
        <td>Conformance</td>
        <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>0</th>
        <th>Commis-sioning-Timeout</th>
        <th>uint16</th>
        <th>desc</th>
        <th></th>
        <th></th>
        <th></th>
        <th>M</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>1</th>
        <th>PAKEPass-codeVeri-fier</th>
        <th>octstr</th>
        <th>97</th>
        <th></th>
        <th></th>
        <th></th>
        <th>M</th>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>ID</td>
        <td>Name</td>
        <td>Type</td>
        <td>Constraint</td>
        <td>Quality</td>
        <td>Default</td>
        <td>Conformance</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>2</th>
        <th>**Discriminator**</th>
        <th>uint16</th>
        <th>max 4095</th>
        <th></th>
        <th></th>
        <th>M</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>3</th>
        <th>**Iterations**</th>
        <th>uint32</th>
        <th>1000 to 100000</th>
        <th></th>
        <th></th>
        <th>M</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>4</th>
        <th>**Salt**</th>
        <th>octstr</th>
        <th>16 to 32</th>
        <th></th>
        <th></th>
        <th>M</th>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### 11.25.7.6. TransferAnchorRequest Command

This command SHALL be sent by a candidate Joint Fabric Anchor Administrator to the current Joint Fabric Anchor Administrator to request transfer of the Anchor Fabric.

### 11.25.7.7. TransferAnchorResponse Command

This command SHALL be generated in response to the Transfer Anchor Request command.

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>ID</td>
        <td>Name</td>
        <td>Type</td>
        <td>Constraint</td>
        <td>Quality</td>
        <td>Fallback</td>
        <td>Conformance</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>0</th>
        <th>**StatusCode**</th>
        <th>TransferAnchorResponseStatusEnum</th>
        <th></th>
        <th></th>
        <th>M</th>
        <th></th>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### 11.25.7.8. TransferAnchorComplete Command

This command SHALL indicate the completion of the transfer of the Anchor Fabric to another Joint Fabric Ecosystem Administrator.

### 11.25.7.9. AnnounceJointFabricAdministrator Command

This command SHALL be used for communicating to client the endpoint that holds the Joint Fabric Administrator Cluster.

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>ID</td>
        <td>Name</td>
        <td>Type</td>
        <td>Constraint</td>
        <td>Quality</td>
        <td>Fallback</td>
        <td>Conformance</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>0</th>
        <th>**EndpointID**</th>
        <th>endpoint-no</th>
        <th>all</th>
        <th></th>
        <th></th>
        <th>M</th>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

This field SHALL contain the unique identifier for the endpoint that holds the Joint Fabric Administrator Cluster.

## 11.26. Commissioner Control Cluster

The Commissioner Control Cluster supports the ability for clients to request the commissioning of themselves or other nodes onto a fabric which the cluster server can commission onto. An example use case is ecosystem to ecosystem Fabric Synchronization setup.