## Page 1

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

that duration.

*   A Client requests an ICD to stay awake for 35000 milliseconds in its *StayActiveDuration* field. The ICD responds with 30000 in its *PromisedActiveDuration* since it can only stay active for that minimal amount.
*   A Client requests an ICD to stay awake for 10000 milliseconds in its *StayActiveDuration* field, but the ICD’s remaining active time is 20000 milliseconds. The ICD responds with 20000 milliseconds in its *PromisedActiveDuration* field since it intends to stay active that long.

# 9.18. Ecosystem Information Cluster

The Ecosystem Information Cluster provides extended device information for all the logical devices represented by a Bridged Node. The Ecosystem Information Cluster presents the view of device name and location metadata for presentation by a client of the cluster to a user. This cluster is intended to support Fabric Synchronization and be present on an endpoint with the BridgedNode device type listed in the DeviceTypeList of the endpoint’s Descriptor cluster.

This augments the [Bridged Device Basic Information Cluster](#) in the following ways:

*   The Ecosystem Information Cluster adds support for providing a name and location for individual endpoints. (The endpoints do not need to be present on the Bridge for their name and location information to be present.)
*   The Ecosystem Information Cluster adds metadata to support conflict resolution between multiple sources of the name and location data.
*   The Ecosystem Information Cluster supports user control for the presence of the name and location information by specifying more restricted access.

A client SHOULD use the information provided by the Ecosystem Information Cluster to help the user organize and interact with their devices. Some examples may include:

*   Directly organizing and labeling the devices in a client’s user interface.
*   Providing hints in the user interface, which can assist the user in organizing and labeling their devices.

For the purposes of the Ecosystem Information Cluster section, an instance of the Ecosystem Information Cluster will be referred to as an "instance".

## 9.18.1. Revision History

The global ClusterRevision attribute value SHALL be the highest revision number in the table below.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Revision</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Initial revision</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 675&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 2

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

## 9.18.2. Classification

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Hierarchy</th>
<th>Role</th>
<th>Scope</th>
<th>PICS Code</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Base</td>
<td>Utility</td>
<td>Endpoint</td>
<td>ECOINFO</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 9.18.3. Cluster ID

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0x0750</td>
<td>Ecosystem Information</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 9.18.4. Data Types

### 9.18.4.1. EcosystemDeviceStruct Type

#### Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>Device-Name</td>
<td>string</td>
<td>max 64</td>
<td></td>
<td>empty</td>
<td>S</td>
<td>O</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Device-Name-LastEdit</td>
<td>epoch-us</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td>0</td>
<td>S</td>
<td>desc</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Bridge-dEndpoint</td>
<td>endpoint-no</td>
<td>desc</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>S</td>
<td>desc</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Original-Endpoint</td>
<td>endpoint-no</td>
<td>desc</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>S</td>
<td>desc</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Device-Types</td>
<td>list[Device-Type-Struct]</td>
<td>desc</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>S</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>UniqueLocationIDs</td>
<td>list[string]</td>
<td>max 64<br>[max 64]</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>S</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>UniqueLocationIDsLastEdit</td>
<td>epoch-us</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td>0</td>
<td>S</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### 9.18.4.1.1. DeviceName Field

This field SHALL indicate the device’s name, which is provided externally if the user consents. (For example, provided by the user in an ecosystem specific interface.)

#### 9.18.4.1.2. DeviceNameLastEdit Field

This field SHALL be present and set if the DeviceName field is present.

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 676&lt;/page_number&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 3

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

This field SHALL indicate the timestamp of when the DeviceName was last modified.

**9.18.4.1.3. BridgedEndpoint Field**

This field SHALL indicate the endpoint this EcosystemDeviceStruct is associated with on this Bridge.

This field SHALL be present and set to a valid endpoint if the device is accessible through the bridge.

**9.18.4.1.4. OriginalEndpoint Field**

This field SHALL indicate the endpoint this EcosystemDeviceStruct is associated with on the original device represented by this bridge’s Bridged Node. If this bridge is receiving the device from another bridge, then the OriginalEndpoint field value would be the same on both bridges. This field SHALL be present and set to a valid endpoint on the original device if that device is a Matter device.

**9.18.4.1.5. DeviceTypes Field**

This field SHALL indicate all of the DeviceTypes within the DeviceTypeList in the Descriptor Cluster associated with this EcosystemDeviceStruct entry.

This field SHALL contain a list of valid device type ids.

**9.18.4.1.6. UniqueLocationIDs Field**

This field SHALL specify the EcosystemLocationStruct entries in the LocationDirectory attribute associated with this EcosystemDeviceStruct.

**9.18.4.1.7. UniqueLocationIDsLastEdit Field**

This field SHALL indicate the timestamp of when the UniqueLocationIDs was last modified.

NOTE If multiple server instances update the UniqueLocationIDs field at the same time, it is possible one of the updates will be missed. This is considered an acceptable limitation to reduce the complexity of the design. Since this is meant to be provided from user input, it is unlikely these signals would be happening at one time.

**9.18.4.2. EcosystemLocationStruct Type**

Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>UniqueLocationID</td>
<td>string</td>
<td>max 64</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>S</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Location-Descriptor</td>
<td>location-desc</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>S</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 677&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 4

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

# Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td><strong>Location-<br/>DescriptorLastE-<br/>dit</strong></td>
<td>epoch-us</td>
<td></td>
<td>0</td>
<td>S</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 9.18.4.2.1. UniqueLocationID Field

This field SHALL indicate a unique identifier for a specific Ecosystem Information Cluster server instance representing the location independent of its LocationDescriptor field.

UniqueLocationID can be used by the client to determine if the change is a relocation of the device or just a renaming of the location.

No guarantees are given for consistency of the ID between server instances. The same location may be represented by different IDs on different Ecosystem Information Cluster server instances, so only the history from a single server instance should be considered when evaluating a change.

UniqueLocationID SHALL be changed when the LocationDescriptor changes from one existing location to another location as a result of an external interaction. (For example, the user changes the location assignment.)

UniqueLocationID SHALL NOT be changed when the LocationDescriptor changes name, but still represents the same location. (For example, the user renames a room.)

UniqueLocationID SHALL be changed when LocationDescriptor changes as a result of another Ecosystem Information Cluster server instance changing and the UniqueLocationID on the remote server instance also changes.

UniqueLocationID SHALL NOT be changed when LocationDescriptor changes as a result of another Ecosystem Information Cluster server instance changing and the UniqueLocationID on the remote server instance does not change.

## 9.18.4.2.2. LocationDescriptor Field

This field SHALL indicate the location (e.g. living room, driveway) and associated metadata that is provided externally if the user consents. (For example, provided by the user in an ecosystem specific interface.)

"Location" in this context is typically used by the user's grouping into rooms, areas or other logical groupings of how devices are used. So a device might be part of multiple such "Locations"s.

<footer>&lt;page_number&gt;Page 678&lt;/page_number&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.</footer>&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

