## Page 1

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>ICAC</td>
<td>octstr</td>
<td>max 400</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>O</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**StatusCode Field**

This field SHALL contain an ICACSRRequestStatusEnum value representing the status of the Section 11.25.5.1, “ICACSRRequest Command” operation.

**ICAC Field**

If present, it SHALL contain the NOC Issuer Certificate in PEM format.

**11.25.5.3. Transfer Anchor Request Command**

This command SHALL be sent by a candidate Joint Fabric Anchor Administrator to the current Joint Fabric Anchor Administrator to request transfer of the Anchor Fabric.

**11.25.5.4. Transfer Anchor Response Command**

This command SHALL be generated in response to the Transfer Anchor Request command.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>StatusCode</td>
<td>TransferAnchorResponseStatusEnum</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**11.25.5.5. Transfer Anchor Complete Command**

This command SHALL indicate the completion of the transfer of the Anchor Fabric to another Joint Fabric Ecosystem Administrator.

**11.26. Commissioner Control Cluster**

The Commissioner Control Cluster supports the ability for clients to request the commissioning of themselves or other nodes onto a fabric which the cluster server can commission onto. An example use case is ecosystem to ecosystem Fabric Synchronization setup.

The generalized flow supported by the Commissioner Control Cluster can be seen in the following diagram.

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1050&lt;/page_number&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 2

Matter Specification R1.4

Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant Server
    Client->>Server: 1 RequestCommissioningApproval Command.
    alt Optional UX
        Server may request user approval.
        The server SHOULD use the Label, VendorID, and ProductID to identify the device to the user.
    end
    Server->>Client: 2 CommissioningRequestResult Event with StatusCode of SUCCESS.
    Client->>Server: 3 CommissionNode
    Server->>Client: 4 ReverseOpenCommissioningWindow (Alias to OpenCommissioningWindow)
    note right of Client
        Client Opens Commissioning Window on device to commission.
    end
    note right of Server
        Initiate Concurrent connection commissioning flow.
    end
```

Figure 101. Commissioner Control Cluster - General Flow

## 11.26.1. Revision History

The global ClusterRevision attribute value SHALL be the highest revision number in the table below.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Revision</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Initial revision</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 11.26.2. Classification

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Hierarchy</th>
<th>Role</th>
<th>Scope</th>
<th>PICS Code</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Base</td>
<td>Utility</td>
<td>Node</td>
<td>CCTRL</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 11.26.3. Cluster ID

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0x0751</td>
<td>Commissioner Control</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 11.26.4. Data Types

### 11.26.4.1. SupportedDeviceCategoryBitmap Type

This data type is derived from map32.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Bit</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Summary</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>FabricSynchronization</td>
<td>Aggregators which support Fabric Synchronization may be commissioned.</td>
<td>O</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<footer>&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved. &lt;page_number&gt;Page 1051&lt;/page_number&gt;</footer>

---


## Page 3

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

**FabricSynchronization Bit**

The FabricSynchronization bit SHALL be set to 1 if and only if the server supports commissioning nodes that support Fabric Synchronization.

## 11.26.5. Attributes

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0x0000</td>
<td>Supported-DeviceCategories</td>
<td>Supported-DeviceCategory-Bitmap</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td>0</td>
<td>R M</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### 11.26.5.1. SupportedDeviceCategories Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate the device categories specified in SupportedDeviceCategoryBitmap that are supported by this Commissioner Control Cluster server.

A client SHALL NOT send the RequestCommissioningApproval command if the intended node to be commissioned does not conform to any of the values specified in SupportedDeviceCategories.

## 11.26.6. Commands

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Direction</th>
<th>Response</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0x00</td>
<td>RequestCom-missioningAp-proval</td>
<td>client ⇒ server</td>
<td>Y</td>
<td>M</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x01</td>
<td>CommissionN-ode</td>
<td>client ⇒ server</td>
<td>ReverseOpen-Commission-ingWindow</td>
<td>M</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x02</td>
<td>ReverseOpen-Commission-ingWindow</td>
<td>server ⇒ client</td>
<td>N</td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### 11.26.6.1. RequestCommissioningApproval Command

This command is sent by a client to request approval for a future CommissionNode call. This is required to be a separate step in order to provide the server time for interacting with a user before informing the client that the CommissionNode operation may be successful.

If the command is not executed via a CASE session, the command SHALL fail with a status code of UNSUPPORTED_ACCESS.

The server MAY request approval from the user, but it is not required.

The server SHALL always return SUCCESS to a correctly formatted RequestCommissioningApproval command, and then generate a CommissioningRequestResult event associated with the command's

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1052&lt;/page_number&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved. &lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 4

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

accessing fabric once the result is ready.

Clients SHOULD avoid using the same RequestID. If the RequestID and client NodeID of a RequestCommissioningApproval match a previously received RequestCommissioningApproval and the server has not returned an error or completed commissioning of a device for the prior request, then the server SHOULD return FAILURE.

The parameters for RequestCommissioningApproval command are as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>RequestID</td>
<td>uint64</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>VendorID</td>
<td>vendor-id</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>ProductID</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Label</td>
<td>string</td>
<td>max 64</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>O</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**11.26.6.2. RequestID**

This SHALL be set by the client to be used again in future interactions.

**11.26.6.3. VendorID / ProductID fields**

These fields SHALL contain the VendorID and ProductID which match the values in the Device Attestation Certificate of the device that the client would like to have commissioned in the subsequent ReverseOpenCommissioningWindow command.

**11.26.6.4. Label**

The Label field SHOULD be set to a user readable name for the device that the client would like to have commissioned in the subsequent ReverseOpenCommissioningWindow command. This may be an ecosystem defined label or user provided name.

For example, in FabricSynchronization between two ecosystems (E1 as initial commissioner and E2 as initial commissionee), the label here represents the node on E1 that will be commissioned by E2 in the reverse commissioning operation after E1 has initially commissioned E2. This enables E2 to provide the user with a label for the node on E1 prior to completing the reverse commissioning operation.

**11.26.6.5. CommissionNode Command**

This command is sent by a client to request that the server begins commissioning a previously approved request.

The server SHALL return FAILURE if the CommissionNode command is not sent from the same NodeID and on the same fabric as the RequestCommissioningApproval or if the provided RequestID to CommissionNode does not match the value provided to RequestCommissioningApproval.

If the command is not executed via a CASE session, the command SHALL fail with a status code of

<footer>&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.</footer>&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1053&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 5

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

UNEXPECTED_ACCESS.

Upon receipt, the server SHALL respond with ReverseOpenCommissioningWindow if CommissioningRequestResult was generated with StatusCode of SUCCESS for the matching RequestID field and NodeID of the client.

The server SHALL return FAILURE if the CommissionNode command is received after the server has already responded to a client with ReverseOpenCommissioningWindow for a matching RequestID field and NodeID of the client unless the client has sent another RequestCommissioningApproval and received an additional CommissioningRequestResult.

The parameters for CommissionNode command are as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>RequestID</td>
<td>uint64</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>ResponseTimeoutSeconds</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>30 to 120</td>
<td></td>
<td>30</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**11.26.6.6. RequestID Field**

This SHALL be set by the client to be the same value provided to RequestCommissioningApproval.

**11.26.6.7. ResponseTimeoutSeconds Field**

Timeout in seconds that the client SHALL wait to receive a response before considering the responses invalid.

**11.26.6.8. ReverseOpenCommissioningWindow Command**

When received within the timeout specified by ResponseTimeoutSeconds in the CommissionNode command, the client SHALL open a commissioning window on a node which matches the VendorID and ProductID provided in the associated RequestCommissioningApproval command.

When commissioning this node, the server SHALL check that the VendorID and ProductID fields provided in the RequestCommissioningApproval command match the VendorID and ProductID attributes of the Basic Information Cluster which have already been verified during the Device Attestation Procedure. If they do not match, the server SHALL NOT complete commissioning and SHOULD indicate an error to the user.

NOTE This is an alias onto the Open Commissioning Window command within the Administrator Commissioning Cluster. Refer to the Open Commissioning Window command for a description of the command behavior and parameters.

The parameters for ReverseOpenCommissioningWindow command are as follows:

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1054&lt;/page_number&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved. &lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 6

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>Commissioning-Timeout</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>desc</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>PAKEPasscodeVerifier</td>
<td>octstr</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Discriminator</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>max 4095</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Iterations</td>
<td>uint32</td>
<td>1000 to 100000</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Salt</td>
<td>octstr</td>
<td>16 to 32</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 11.26.7. Events

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Priority</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0x00</td>
<td>CommissioningRequestResult</td>
<td>INFO</td>
<td></td>
<td>M S</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### 11.26.7.1. CommissioningRequestResult Event

This event SHALL be generated by the server following a RequestCommissioningApproval command which the server responded to with SUCCESS.

**NOTE** The approval is valid for a period determined by the manufacturer and characteristics of the node presenting the Commissioner Control Cluster. Clients SHOULD send the CommissionNode command immediately upon receiving a CommissioningRequestResult event.

**Access Quality: Fabric-Sensitive**

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>RequestID</td>
<td>uint64</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>ClientNodeID</td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>StatusCode</td>
<td>status</td>
<td>desc</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### 11.26.7.2. RequestID / ClientNodeID Fields

The RequestID SHALL match the RequestID provided to RequestCommissioningApproval and the ClientNodeID shall match the NodeID of the client which generated the RequestCommissioningAp-

<footer>&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.</footer>&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1055&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 7

Matter Specification R1.4
proval command.

Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

## 11.26.7.3. StatusCode Field

The server SHALL set this field to SUCCESS if the server is ready to begin commissioning the requested device, TIMEOUT if the server timed out due to user inaction or FAILURE for any other error.

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1056&lt;/page_number&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;