## Page 1

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

To increase interoperability, DataDigestType, if present, SHALL be within the list of [1, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12].

**11.23.9.12. RevocationType**

This field SHALL identify the type of file found at the DataUrl for this entry. Values supported are:

*   0: Undefined. This value SHALL NOT appear
*   1: RFC 5280 Certificate Revocation List (CRL)
*   Other: reserved for future use.

**11.23.9.13. SchemaVersion**

The SchemaVersion field value history for this schema is provided below:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Version</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>Initial Release</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**11.23.10. APIs / CLI**

The Ledger comes with a set of secure APIs and CLI. More details available here [https://github.com/zigbee-alliance/distributed-compliance-ledger/blob/master/docs/transactions.md](https://github.com/zigbee-alliance/distributed-compliance-ledger/blob/master/docs/transactions.md).

# **11.24. Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster**

The Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster is a cluster that provides a mechanism for the Joint Fabric Administrators to manage the set of Nodes, Groups, and Group membership among Nodes in the Joint Fabric.

When an Ecosystem Administrator Node is commissioned onto the Joint Fabric, the Ecosystem Administrator Node has no knowledge of what Nodes and Groups are present, or what set-up information related to the Joint Fabric is provided by the user. To address lack of knowledge, the Joint Fabric Datastore provides the information required for all Ecosystem Administrators to maintain a consistent view of the Joint Fabric including Nodes, Groups, settings and privileges.

The Joint Fabric Datastore cluster server SHALL only be accessible on a Node which is acting as the Joint Fabric Anchor Administrator. When not acting as the Joint Fabric Anchor Administrator, the Joint Fabric Datastore cluster SHALL NOT be accessible.

The Admin level of access to the Joint Fabric Datastore cluster server SHALL be limited to JF Administrator Nodes identified using the Administrator CAT.

NOTE Support for Joint Fabric Datastore cluster is provisional.

## **11.24.1. Revision History**

The global ClusterRevision attribute value SHALL be the highest revision number in the table below.

&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1017&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 2

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Revision</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Initial revision</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 11.24.2. Classification

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Hierarchy</th>
<th>Role</th>
<th>Scope</th>
<th>PICS Code</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Base</td>
<td>Utility</td>
<td>Node</td>
<td>JFDS</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 11.24.3. Cluster ID

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0x0752</td>
<td>Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster</td>
<td>P</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 11.24.4. Usage Requirements

This section describes the required flows for Joint Fabric Administrators to perform common actions related to adding and removing Nodes to a Joint Fabric, and managing Groups and Group Membership on the Joint Fabric.

Many flows performed by a Joint Fabric Administrator require commands to be sent to the Datastore in order to keep the Datastore up-to-date with regard to Nodes and Groups on the Fabric. While a Joint Fabric Administrator SHALL update the Datastore with changes made to Nodes and Groups, it MAY complete these configuration and commissioning tasks when the Datastore is unreachable. If attempts to update the Datastore fail due to temporary conditions (reachability issues, BUSY response error, RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED error, etc.), the Commissioner SHALL periodically retry the attempted commands until successful.

The RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED error MAY be used by the Datastore to indicate that a storage capacity limit of the Datastore has been reached and SHALL notify the user of this condition using proprietary means outside of this specification (ex. email, screen-based notification, etc.), and SHALL provide a means for the user to purge information pertaining to unused Nodes.

### 11.24.4.1. Adding a Node to the Joint Fabric

During commissioning of a Node onto a Joint fabric, the Fabric Administrator performing the commissioning first populates the Datastore in order to ensure the new Node can be discovered by any client on the fabric for which the user has granted access. Specifically, before completing the commissioning process, the Commissioner SHALL invoke the Add Pending Node Command in order to add a node entry to the Datastore (which will be marked with “pending” status since commissioning of the device has not yet completed), and follow Section 11.24.4.9, “Adding/Removing access privileges for a Controller” to ensure access privileges are managed consistently across the Joint Fabric. After completion of commissioning and associated configuration, the Commissioner SHALL invoke the Refresh Node Command in order to indicate completion of commissioning and to cause the Datastore to update the Node Information Entry with state read from the Node and mark the entry as "committed". By performing this work in two steps (first pending status, then committed status), the design can prevent error scenarios where a node is brought onto a fabric without

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1018&lt;/page_number&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 3

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

appearing in the Datastore.

**Commissioning Flow - Datastore Impact**

1. Regular Flow: Commissioner obtains setup code, discovers device, completes PASE portion of commissioning.
2. Datastore Step: Commissioner SHALL add a Node Information Entry to the Datastore (see Add Pending Node Command).
3. Regular Flow: Commissioner finalizes commissioning via CASE.

If the finalize commissioning step fails, the Commissioner removes the pending node from the Datastore (see Remove Node Command).

If the finalize commissioning step succeeds, the Commissioner SHALL indicate completion by calling the <ref_RefreshNode,Refresh Node Command>>.

**11.24.4.2. Removing a Node from the Joint Fabric**

When removing a Node from the Joint Fabric the following steps SHALL be followed:

1. The Joint Fabric Administrator SHALL first remove access privileges (see Section 11.24.4.9, “Adding/Removing access privileges for a Controller”) for the Node.
2. The Node Information Entry SHALL be removed from the Joint Fabric Datastore using the Remove Node Command.

**11.24.4.3. Pending Data Cleanup**

The Datastore SHALL periodically review its data in a Pending and PendingDeletion state and attempt to reach the corresponding Node in order to apply these updates. Examples of configuration that may be in such a state include:

1. Node GroupKey additions and removals.
2. Node Endpoint Group membership additions and removals.
3. Node ACL additions, updates and removals for groups, including changes relating to CAT version updates.
4. Node Binding additions and removals for groups.

See Refresh Node Command for a detailed description of each step. An Administrator MAY invoke this command at any time to request that the Datastore perform this operation immediately for a given Node.

When a new node entry is left in the pending state, a Joint Fabric Administrator may not be able to determine whether commissioning completed or failed. In this scenario, the Joint Fabric Administrator must continue to monitor and attempt maintenance duties upon the node until the node entry is removed by another Joint Fabric Administrator or by the user.

&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1019&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 4

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

**11.24.4.4. Adding a Node to a Group**

When adding a Node to a Group, the **Joint Fabric Administrator** SHALL use the AddGroupIDToEndpointForNode Command to update the Node with the KeySet and Group relationship required for the new Group membership.

When the Group membership is intended for control of the Node, the **Joint Fabric Administrator** SHALL use the AddACLToNode Command to update the Node with the appropriate ACL.

When the Group membership is intended for control by the Node, the **Joint Fabric Administrator** SHALL use the AddBindingToEndpointForNode Command to update the Node with the appropriate Binding.

**11.24.4.5. Removing a Node from a Group**

When the Group membership was used for control of the Node, the **Joint Fabric Administrator** SHALL use the RemoveACLFromNode Command to remove the ACL from the Node.

When the Group membership was used for control by the Node, the **Joint Fabric Administrator** SHALL use the RemoveBindingFromEndpointForNode Command to remove the Binding from the Node.

When removing a Node from a Group, the **Joint Fabric Administrator** SHALL use the RemoveGroupIDFromEndpointForNode Command to ensure the KeySet and Group relationship is removed from the Node and the Datastore reflects the new Group membership.

For groups with access control considerations, the **Joint Fabric Administrator** SHALL use the UpdateGroup Command to update the GroupKeySetID and increment the GroupCATVersion. If the Node is a Controller, then the **Joint Fabric Administrator** SHALL also update the GroupCATVersion of the Group.

**11.24.4.6. Making a Node a Group Controller (eg. Light Switch example)**

In this example, Node N’s Endpoint E (On/Off Light Switch) should control Group G with Group Key Set K:

1. Make sure Node N is in Group G by calling AddGroupIDToEndpointForNode Command with arguments N, E, and G.
2. Add a binding to Endpoint E on Node N by calling AddBindingToEndpointForNode Command with arguments N, E, and the desired Binding.

**11.24.4.7. Adding a Joint Fabric Administrator Node to a Fabric**

When a Node is a Joint Fabric Administrator, its Group membership does not need to be managed by the Datastore since it has the ability to monitor the Datastore and issue operational certs for its own Administrator Nodes at any time. As a result, rather than adding Joint Fabric Administrator Nodes to the regular NodeList attribute via the AddPendingNode Command, these Nodes SHALL be added to the AdminList via the AddAdmin Command.

It’s important to explicitly track the vendor ID of an **Joint Fabric Administrator** so that the **Joint Fab-

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1020&lt;/page_number&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 5

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

ric Administrator controlling the Root Operational Cert for the fabric can sign intermediate certificates which can be used by an Joint Fabric Administrator to issue operational certificates.

**11.24.4.8. Adding/Updating/Removing a Group**

When adding a group, a client must create the group information entry before adding membership associations between the Node and the Group.

**Adding a Group**

Add Group Key Set Entry (if new) using the AddKeySet Command, followed by Group Information Entry using the AddGroup Command.

**Updating a Group**

Update the Group Key Set Entry (if changing) using the UpdateKeySet Command. Update the Group Information Entry using the UpdateGroup Command. KeySet and Group updates performed using these commands will cause the Datastore to attempt to update all Node members of the group with these changes. Any Node changes that do not complete (for example, if the Node is unreachable) will result in Pending status on the data in the Node Information Entry.

**Removing a Group**

Remove the Group Information Entry using the UpdateGroup Command. This command will fail if the Group is in use (and not with PendingDelete Status) by any Nodes.

Remove the Group Key Set Entry using the RemoveKeySet Command. This command will fail if this KeySet is in use by any Groups.

**11.24.4.9. Adding/Removing access privileges for a Controller**

In order to ensure a consistent approach to access control by Administrators on a Joint Fabric, Joint Fabric Administrators SHALL use groups in the Datastore for managing access to Nodes. One goal of this approach is to avoid creating ACL entries on Nodes which reference a single NodeID, which does not scale as the number of Controller NodeIDs increases. Instead, ACLs can reference the CAT tag of the group or the GroupID of the group, depending upon the type of access intended. Each group in the Datastore contains a CAT tag for use in unicast access to group members, and a KeySet for use in broadcast access to group members.

In order to add a new access privilege to NodeA by ControllerB, the Joint Fabric Administrator SHALL identify a group to use for this grant (using Section 11.24.7.4, “AddGroup Command” to create a new one if needed), and call Section 11.24.7.15, “AddGroupIDToEndpointForNode Command” and Section 11.24.7.19, “AddACLToNode Command” in order to configure NodeA to allow access by the group. Next, the Administrator SHALL provide a NOC to the controller containing the CAT tag specified for the given group.

In order to remove an access privilege grant for ControllerB on NodeA, the Joint Fabric Administrator SHALL revoke access to the group by ControllerB (see Section 11.24.4.5, “Removing a Node from a Group”) and in doing so, ensure that the CAT version for the Group Information Entry is incremented.

&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1021&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 6

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

# 11.24.5. Data Types

## 11.24.5.1. DatastoreStateEnum Type

This data type is derived from enum8.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Value</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Summary</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td><strong>Pending</strong></td>
<td>Target device operation is pending</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td><strong>Committed</strong></td>
<td>Target device operation has been committed</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td><strong>DeletePending</strong></td>
<td>Target device delete operation is pending</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 11.24.5.2. DatastoreStatusEntry Type

Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td><strong>State</strong></td>
<td>Section<br>11.24.5.1,<br>"DatastoreSta-<br>teEnum<br>Type"</td>
<td></td>
<td>Pending</td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td><strong>Update-<br>Time-<br>stamp</strong></td>
<td>utc</td>
<td>all</td>
<td>null</td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### State Field

This field SHALL contain the current state of the target device operation.

### UpdateTimestamp Field

This field SHALL contain the timestamp of the last update.

## 11.24.5.3. Datastore Node Key Entry Type

Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td><strong>GroupKey-<br>SetID</strong></td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<footer>&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1022&lt;/page_number&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.</footer>
&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 7

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>StatusEntry</td>
<td>Section<br>11.24.5.2,<br>“DatastoreStatusEntry Type”</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
</tbody>
</table>

GroupKeySet Field

Group Key Set structure containing the list of epoch keys.

StatusEntry Field

Indicates whether entry in this list is pending, committed, or delete-pending.

11.24.5.4. Datastore Group Information Entry Type

Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<td>ID</td>
<td>Name</td>
<td>Type</td>
<td>Constraint</td>
<td>Quality</td>
<td>Default</td>
<td>Access</td>
<td>Conformance</td>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>GroupID</td>
<td>uint64</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Friendly-<br>Name</td>
<td>string</td>
<td>max 32</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>GroupKey-<br>SetID</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>1 to 65535</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>GroupCAT</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>1 to 65535</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Group-<br>CATVer-<br>sion</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>1 to 65535</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>GroupPer-<br>mission</td>
<td>AccessCon-<br>trolEn-<br>tryPrivi-<br>legeEnum</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

GroupID Field

The unique identifier for the group.

FriendlyName Field

The friendly name for the group.

GroupKeySetID Field

The unique identifier for the group key set.

&lt;img&gt;CSA Connectivity Standards Alliance logo&lt;/img&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1023&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 8

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

**GroupCAT Field**

CAT value for this group. This is used for control of individual members of a group (non-broadcast commands).

**GroupCATVersion Field**

Current version number for this CAT.

**GroupPermission Field**

The permission level associated with ACL entries for this group. There should be only one Administrator group per fabric, and at most one Manage group per Ecosystem (Vendor Entry).

**Datastore Binding Entry Type**

**Access Quality: Fabric Scoped**

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>ListID</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Binding</td>
<td>Target-Struct</td>
<td>desc</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>StatusEntry</td>
<td>Section 11.24.5.2, “DatastoreStatusEntry Type”</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**ListID Field**

The unique identifier for the Binding entry in the Datastore’s list of DatastoreBindingEntry.

**Binding Field**

The binding target structure.

**StatusEntry Field**

Indicates whether entry in this list is pending, committed, or delete-pending.

**11.24.5.5. Datastore Group ID Entry Type**

**Access Quality: Fabric Scoped**

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>GroupID</td>
<td>group-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1024&lt;/page_number&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 9

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>StatusEntry</td>
<td>Section<br>11.24.5.2,<br>“DatastoreStatusEntry Type”</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
</tbody>
</table>

GroupID Field
The unique identifier for the group.

StatusEntry Field
Indicates whether entry in this list is pending, committed, or delete-pending.

11.24.5.6. Datastore Endpoint Entry Type

Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<td>ID</td>
<td>Name</td>
<td>Type</td>
<td>Constraint Quality</td>
<td>Default</td>
<td>Access</td>
<td>Conformance</td>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>End-pointID</td>
<td>endpoint-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>NodeID</td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Friendly-Name</td>
<td>string</td>
<td>max 32</td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>StatusEntry</td>
<td>Section<br>11.24.5.2,<br>“DatastoreStatusEntry Type”</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>GroupIDList</td>
<td>DataType-List[Section<br>11.24.5.5,<br>“Datastore Group ID Entry Type”]</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

&lt;img&gt;CSA Connectivity Standards Alliance logo&lt;/img&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1025&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 10

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Bind-ingList</td>
<td>DataType-List[Section<br>11.24.5.4.7,<br>“Datastore<br>Binding<br>Entry<br>Type”]</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
</tbody>
</table>

**EndpointID Field**

The unique identifier for the endpoint.

**NodeID Field**

The unique identifier for the node.

**FriendlyName Field**

Friendly name for this endpoint which is propagated to nodes. Any changes to Friendly Name or Group Id List (add/remove entry) must follow the pending → committed workflow with current state reflected in the Status Entry.

**StatusEntry Field**

Indicates whether changes to Friendly Name are pending or committed.

**GroupIDList Field**

List of Group IDs that this endpoint is a member of. Any changes to Group Id List (add/remove entry) must follow the pending → committed workflow with current state reflected in the Status Entry.

**BindingList Field**

List of Binding Targets for this endpoint. Any changes to Binding List (add/remove entry) must follow the pending → committed workflow with current state reflected in the Status Entry.

**11.24.5.7. Datastore ACL Entry Type**

Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<td>ID</td>
<td>Name</td>
<td>Type</td>
<td>Constraint Quality</td>
<td>Default</td>
<td>Access</td>
<td>Confor-mance</td>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>ListID</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>ACLEntry</td>
<td>AccessCon-trolEntryS-truct</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1026&lt;/page_number&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 11

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

# Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Section</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>StatusEntry</td>
<td>Section<br>11.24.5.2,<br>“DatastoreStatusEntry Type”</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## ListID Field

The unique identifier for the ACL entry in the Datastore’s list of DatastoreACLEntry.

## ACLEntry Field

The Access Control Entry structure.

## StatusEntry Field

Indicates whether entry in this list is pending, committed, or delete-pending.

### 11.24.5.8. Datastore Node Information Entry Type

# Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Section</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>NodeID</td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td></td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Friendly-Name</td>
<td>string</td>
<td></td>
<td>max 32</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>CommissioningStatusEntry</td>
<td>Section<br>11.24.5.2,<br>“DatastoreStatusEntry Type”</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>NodeKey-SetList</td>
<td>DataType-List[Section<br>11.24.5.3,<br>“Datastore Node Key Entry Type”]</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<footer>&lt;img&gt;CSA logo&lt;/img&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.</footer>
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1027&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 12

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td><strong>ACLList</strong></td>
<td>list[Section<br>11.24.5.7,<br>“Datastore<br>ACL Entry<br>Type”]</td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td><strong>End-</strong><br><strong>pointList</strong></td>
<td>DataType-<br>List[Sec-<br>tion<br>11.24.5.6,<br>“Datastore<br>Endpoint<br>Entry<br>Type”]</td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**NodeID Field**

The unique identifier for the node.

**FriendlyName Field**

Friendly name for this node which is not propagated to nodes.

**CommissioningStatusEntry Field**

Set to pending prior to completing commissioning, and set to completed after commissioning complete is successful.

**NodeKeySetList Field**

List of Key Set information for the given Node. Updates to the Group Key List must follow the pending→committed workflow with current state reflected in the Status Entry for the corresponding entry in the list.

**ACLList Field**

List of ACL entries. Group membership for this node is inferred from the ACLs. Client access to a Node Information Entry will be determined from the ACL List. Any changes to ACL List (add/remove entry) must follow the pending→committed workflow with current state reflected in the Status Entry for the corresponding entry in the list.

**EndpointList Field**

The list of endpoints for this node. Any changes to Endpoint List (add/remove entry) must follow the pending→committed workflow with current state reflected in the Status Entry for the corresponding entry in the list.

<footer>&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1028&lt;/page_number&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.</footer>
<footer>&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;</footer>

---


## Page 13

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

## 11.24.5.9. Datastore Administrator Information Entry Type

### Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td><strong>NodeID</strong></td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td><strong>Friendly-Name</strong></td>
<td>string</td>
<td>max 32</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td><strong>VendorID</strong></td>
<td>vendor-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td><strong>ICAC</strong></td>
<td>octstr</td>
<td>max 400</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>R V</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**NodeID Field**

The unique identifier for the node.

**FriendlyName Field**

Friendly name for this node which is not propagated to nodes.

**VendorID Field**

The Vendor ID for the node.

**ICAC Field**

The ICAC used to issue the NOC.

## 11.24.6. Attributes

### Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td><strong>Anchor-RootCA</strong></td>
<td>octstr</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>S A R</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td><strong>AnchorN-odeID</strong></td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>S A R</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td><strong>Anchor-VendorID</strong></td>
<td>vendor-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>S A R</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td><strong>Friendly-Name</strong></td>
<td>string</td>
<td>max 32</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>S A R</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td><strong>GroupKey-SetList</strong></td>
<td>DataType-List[Group-KeySet-Struct]</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>S A R</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<footer>&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.</footer>
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1029&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 14

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

Access Quality: Fabric Scoped

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td><strong>GroupList</strong></td>
<td>DataType-<br>List[Section<br>11.24.5.4,<br>“Datastore<br>Group<br>Informa-<br>tion Entry<br>Type”]</td>
<td></td>
<td>S A R</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td><strong>NodeList</strong></td>
<td>DataType-<br>List[Section<br>11.24.5.8,<br>“Datastore<br>Node<br>Informa-<br>tion Entry<br>Type”]</td>
<td></td>
<td>S A R</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td><strong>AdminList</strong></td>
<td>DataType-<br>List[Section<br>11.24.5.9,<br>“Datastore<br>Adminis-<br>trator<br>Informa-<br>tion Entry<br>Type”]</td>
<td></td>
<td>S A R</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td><strong>StatusEn-</strong></td>
<td>Section<br>11.24.5.9,<br>“Datastore<br>Adminis-<br>trator<br>Informa-<br>tion Entry<br>Type”</td>
<td></td>
<td>S A R</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**11.24.6.1. AnchorRootCA Attribute**

This SHALL indicate the Anchor Root CA used to sign all NOC Issuers in the Joint Fabric. A null value indicates that the Joint Fabric is not yet formed.

**11.24.6.2. AnchorNodeID Attribute**

This SHALL indicate the Node identifier of the Joint Fabric Anchor Root CA.

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1030&lt;/page_number&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 15

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

**11.24.6.3. AnchorVendorID Attribute**

This SHALL indicate the Vendor identifier of the Joint Fabric Anchor Root CA.

**11.24.6.4. FriendlyName Attribute**

Friendly name for this fabric which can be propagated to nodes.

**11.24.6.5. GroupKeySetList Attribute**

This SHALL indicate the list of GroupKeySetStruct used in the Joint Fabric.

This attribute SHALL contain at least one entry, the IPK, which has GroupKeySetID of 0.

**11.24.6.6. GroupList Attribute**

This SHALL indicate the list of groups in the Joint Fabric.

**11.24.6.7. NodeList Attribute**

This SHALL indicate the list of nodes in the Joint Fabric.

**11.24.6.8. AdminList Attribute**

This SHALL indicate the list of administrators in the Joint Fabric.

Only one Administrator may serve as the Anchor Root CA and Anchor Fabric Administrator and SHALL have index value 0. All other Joint Fabric Administrators SHALL be referenced at index 1 or greater.

A null value or empty list indicates that the Joint Fabric is not yet formed.

**11.24.6.9. StatusEntry Attribute**

This SHALL indicate the current state of the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The Committed status indicates the DataStore is ready for use. The Pending status indicates that the DataStore is not yet ready for use. The DeletePending status indicates that the DataStore is in the process of being transferred to another Joint Fabric Anchor Administrator.

**11.24.7. Commands**

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Direction</th>
<th>Response</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0x00</td>
<td><span>Section<br>11.24.7.1,<br>“AddKeySet<br>Command”</span></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>Y</td>
<td>FA</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<footer>&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.</footer>&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1031&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 16

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Direction</th>
<th>Response</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0x01</td>
<td><strong>Section<br>11.24.7.2,<br>“UpdateKey-<br>Set Com-<br>mand”</strong></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server Y</td>
<td></td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x02</td>
<td><strong>Section<br>11.24.7.3,<br>“RemoveKey-<br>Set Com-<br>mand”</strong></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server Y</td>
<td></td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x03</td>
<td><strong>Section<br>11.24.7.4,<br>“AddGroup<br>Command”</strong></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server Y</td>
<td></td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x04</td>
<td><strong>Section<br>11.24.7.5,<br>“UpdateGroup<br>Command”</strong></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server Y</td>
<td></td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x05</td>
<td><strong>Section<br>11.24.7.6,<br>“Remove-<br>Group Com-<br>mand”</strong></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server Y</td>
<td></td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x06</td>
<td><strong>Section<br>11.24.7.7,<br>“AddAdmin<br>Command”</strong></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server Y</td>
<td></td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x07</td>
<td><strong>Section<br>11.24.7.8,<br>“UpdateAd-<br>min Com-<br>mand”</strong></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server Y</td>
<td></td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x08</td>
<td><strong>Section<br>11.24.7.9,<br>“RemoveAd-<br>min Com-<br>mand”</strong></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server Y</td>
<td></td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x09</td>
<td><strong>Section<br>11.24.7.10,<br>“AddPend-<br>ingNode Com-<br>mand”</strong></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server Y</td>
<td></td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1032&lt;/page_number&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved. &lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 17

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Direction</th>
<th>Response</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0x0A</td>
<td><span>Section<br>11.24.7.11,<br>“RefreshNode<br>Command”</span></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>Y</td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x0B</td>
<td><span>Section<br>11.24.7.12,<br>“UpdateNode<br>Command”</span></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>Y</td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x0C</td>
<td><span>Section<br>11.24.7.13,<br>“RemoveNode<br>Command”</span></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>Y</td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x0D</td>
<td><span>Section<br>11.24.7.14,<br>“UpdateEnd-<br>pointForNode<br>Command”</span></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>Y</td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x0E</td>
<td><span>Section<br>11.24.7.15,<br>“AddGroupID-<br>ToEndpoint-<br>ForNode Com-<br>mand”</span></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>Y</td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x0F</td>
<td><span>Section<br>11.24.7.16,<br>“Remove-<br>GroupID-<br>FromEnd-<br>pointForNode<br>Command”</span></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>Y</td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x10</td>
<td><span>Section<br>11.24.7.17,<br>“AddBinding-<br>ToEndpoint-<br>ForNode Com-<br>mand”</span></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>Y</td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x11</td>
<td><span>Section<br>11.24.7.18,<br>“RemoveBind-<br>ingFromEnd-<br>pointForNode<br>Command”</span></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>Y</td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1033&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 18

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Direction</th>
<th>Response</th>
<th>Access</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0x12</td>
<td><span style="color:blue;">Section<br>11.24.7.19,<br>“AddACLToN-<br>ode Com-<br>mmand”</span></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>Y</td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>0x13</td>
<td><span style="color:blue;">Section<br>11.24.7.20,<br>“RemoveACL-<br>FromNode<br>Command”</span></td>
<td>Client ⇒ Server</td>
<td>Y</td>
<td>F A</td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**11.24.7.1. AddKeySet Command**

This command SHALL be used to add a KeySet to the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Confor-<br>mance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>GroupKey-<br>Set</td>
<td>GroupKey-<br>SetStruct</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

GroupKeySet represents the KeySet to be added to the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:
1. Ensure there are no KeySets in the KeySetList attribute with the given GroupKeySetID.
2. If a match is found, return CONSTRAINT_ERROR.
3. Add the Epoch Key Entry for the KeySet to the KeySetList attribute.

**11.24.7.2. UpdateKeySet Command**

This command SHALL be used to update a KeySet in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Confor-<br>mance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>GroupKey-<br>Set</td>
<td>GroupKey-<br>SetStruct</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

GroupKeySet represents the KeySet to be updated in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:
1. Find the Epoch Key Entry for the KeySet in the KeySetList attribute with the given GroupKey-

<footer>&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1034&lt;/page_number&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.</footer>
<footer>&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;</footer>

---


## Page 19

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

SetID, and update any changed fields.

2. If entry is not found, return NOT_FOUND.

3. If any fields are changed as a result of this command:
    a. Iterate through each Node Information Entry:
        i. If the NodeKeySetList contains an entry with the given GroupKeySetID:
            A. Update the Status on the given Section 11.24.5.3, “Datastore Node Key Entry Type” to Pending.
            B. Update the GroupKeySet on the given Node with the new values.
                I. If successful, update the Status on this Section 11.24.5.3, “Datastore Node Key Entry Type” to Committed.
                II. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent Node Refresh.

**11.24.7.3. RemoveKeySet Command**

This command SHALL be used to remove a KeySet from the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>GroupKey-SetID</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

GroupKeySetID represents the unique identifier for the KeySet to be removed from the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

Attempt to remove the IPK, which has GroupKeySetID of 0, SHALL fail with response CONSTRAINT_ERROR.

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:

1. If entry is not found, return NOT_FOUND.
2. Ensure there are no Nodes using this KeySet. To do this:
    a. Iterate through each Node Information Entry:
        i. If the NodeKeySetList list contains an entry with the given GroupKeySetID, and the entry does NOT have Status DeletePending, then return CONSTRAINT_ERROR.
3. Remove the GroupKeySet for the given GroupKeySetID from the GroupKeySetList attribute.

**11.24.7.4. AddGroup Command**

This command SHALL be used to add a group to the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

&lt;img&gt;CSA Connectivity Standards Alliance logo&lt;/img&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1035&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 20

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>GroupID</td>
<td>group-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Friendly-Name</td>
<td>string</td>
<td>max 32</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>GroupKey-SetID</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>1 to 65535</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>GroupCAT</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>1 to 65535</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Group-CATVersion</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>1 to 65535</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>GroupPermission</td>
<td>AccessControlEntryPrivilegeEnum</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

GroupInformationEntry represents the group to be added to the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:

1. Ensure there are no Groups in the GroupList attribute with the given GroupID. If a match is found, return CONSTRAINT_ERROR.
2. Add the DatastoreGroupInformationEntry for the Group with the given GroupID to the GroupList attribute.

**11.24.7.5. UpdateGroup Command**

This command SHALL be used to update a group in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>GroupID</td>
<td>group-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Friendly-Name</td>
<td>string</td>
<td>max 32</td>
<td>X</td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>GroupKey-SetID</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>1 to 65535</td>
<td>X</td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>GroupCAT</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>1 to 65535</td>
<td>X</td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Group-CATVersion</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>1 to 65535</td>
<td>X</td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1036&lt;/page_number&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 21

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>GroupPermission</td>
<td>AccessControlEntryPrivilegeEnum</td>
<td>X</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

GroupID represents the group to be updated in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster. NULL values for the additional parameters will be ignored (not updated).

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:

1. If entry is not found, return NOT_FOUND.
2. Update the DatastoreGroupInformationEntry for the Group with the given GroupID to match the non-NULL fields passed in.
3. If any fields are changed as a result of this command:
    a. Iterate through each Node Information Entry:
        i. If the GroupKeySetID changed:
            I. Add a Section 11.24.5.3, “Datastore Node Key Entry Type” with the new GroupKeySetID, and Status set to Pending.
            II. Add this KeySet to the Node.
                1. If successful, Set the Status to Committed for this entry in the NodeKeySetList.
                2. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent Node Refresh.
                    A. If the NodeKeySetList list contains an entry with the previous GroupKeySetID:
                        III. Set the Status set to DeletePending.
                        IV. Remove this KeySet from the Node.
                            1. If successful, Remove this entry from the NodeKeySetList.
                            2. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent Node Refresh.
        ii. If the GroupCAT, GroupCATVersion or GroupPermission changed:
            A. If the ACLList contains an entry for this Group, update the ACL List Entry in the Datastore with the new values and Status Pending, update the ACL attribute on the given Node with the new values. If the update succeeds, set the Status to Committed on the ACLList Entry in the Datastore.
        iii. If the FriendlyName changed:
            A. Iterate through each Endpoint Information Entry:
                I. If the GroupIDList contains an entry with the given GroupID:
                    1. Update the GroupIDList Entry in the Datastore with the new values and Status Pending

<footer>&lt;img&gt;CSA logo&lt;/img&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.</footer>&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1037&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 22

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

2. Update the Groups on the given Node with the new values.
    1. If the update succeeds, set the Status to Committed on the GroupIDList Entry in the Datastore.
    2. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent Node Refresh.

**11.24.7.6. RemoveGroup Command**

This command SHALL be used to remove a group from the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>GroupID</td>
<td>group-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

GroupID represents the unique identifier for the group to be removed from the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:
1. If entry is not found, return NOT_FOUND.
2. Ensure there are no Nodes in this group. To do this:
    a. Iterate through each Node Information Entry:
        i. If the GroupIDList contains an entry with the given GroupID, and the entry does NOT have Status DeletePending, then return CONSTRAINT_ERROR.
3. Remove the DatastoreGroupInformationEntry for the Group with the given GroupID from the GroupList attribute.

**11.24.7.7. AddAdmin Command**

This command SHALL be used to add an admin to the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>AdminInformationEntry</td>
<td>Section 11.24.5.9, “Datastore Administrator Information Entry Type”</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

AdminInformationEntry represents the admin to be added to the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1038&lt;/page_number&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved. &lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 23

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

**11.24.7.8. UpdateAdmin Command**

This command SHALL be used to update an admin in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>NodeID</td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td>X</td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Friendly-Name</td>
<td>string</td>
<td>max 32</td>
<td>X</td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>ICAC</td>
<td>octstr</td>
<td>max 400</td>
<td>X</td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

NodeID represents the admin to be updated in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster. NULL values for the additional parameters will be ignored (not updated).

If entry is not found, return NOT_FOUND.

**11.24.7.9. RemoveAdmin Command**

This command SHALL be used to remove an admin from the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>NodeID</td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

NodeID represents the unique identifier for the admin to be removed from the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

If entry is not found, return NOT_FOUND.

**11.24.7.10. AddPendingNode Command**

The command SHALL be used to add a node to the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>NodeID</td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Friendly-Name</td>
<td>string</td>
<td>max 32</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

NodeID represents the node to be added to the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:

&lt;img&gt;CSA Connectivity Standards Alliance logo&lt;/img&gt;
<footer>Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.</footer>
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1039&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 24

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

1. Update CommissioningStatusEntry of the Node Information Entry with the given NodeID to **Pending**.

If a Node Information Entry exists for the given NodeID, this command SHALL return INVALID_CONSTRAINT.

### 11.24.7.11. RefreshNode Command

The command SHALL be used to request that Datastore information relating to a Node is refreshed.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>NodeID</td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:

1. Confirm that a Node Information Entry exists for the given NodeID, and if not, return NOT_FOUND.
2. Update the CommissioningStatusEntry for the Node Information Entry to **Pending**.
3. Ensure the Endpoint List for the Node Information Entry with the given NodeID matches Endpoint list on the given Node. This involves the following steps:
    a. Read the PartsList of the Descriptor cluster from the Node.
    b. For each Endpoint Information Entry in the Endpoint List of the Node Information Entry that does not match an Endpoint ID in the PartList, remove the Endpoint Information Entry.
    c. For each Endpoint Information Entry in the Endpoint List of the Node Information Entry that matches an Endpoint ID in the PartList:
        i. Check that each entry in Node's Group List occurs in the GroupIDList of the Endpoint Information Entry.
            A. Add any missing entries to the GroupIDList of the Endpoint Information Entry.
            B. For any entries in the GroupIDList with Status of **Pending**:
                I. Add the corresponding change to the Node's Group List.
                    1. If successful, mark the Status to **Committed**.
                    2. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent **Node Refresh**.
                C. For any entries in the GroupIDList with Status of **DeletePending**:
                    1. If successful, remove the corresponding entry from the Node's Group List.
                    2. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent **Node Refresh**.
            ii. Check that each entry in Node's Binding List occurs in the BindingList of the Endpoint Information Entry.

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1040&lt;/page_number&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 25

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

A. Add any missing entries to the BindingList of the Endpoint Information Entry.

B. For any entries in the BindingList with Status of **Pending**:
    I. Add the corresponding change to the Node’s Binding List.
        1. If successful, mark the Status to **Committed**.
        2. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent **Node Refresh**.
    C. For any entries in the BindingList with Status of **DeletePending**:
        1. If successful, remove the corresponding entry from the Node’s BindingList.
        2. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent **Node Refresh**.

4. Ensure the GroupKeySetList for the Node Information Entry with the given NodeID matches the Group Keys on the given Node. This involves the following steps:
    a. Read the Group Keys from the Node.
    b. For each GroupKeySetEntry in the GroupKeySetList of the Node Information Entry with a **Pending** Status:
        i. Add the corresponding **GroupKeySetStruct** to the Node’s Group Key list.
            A. If successful, mark the Status to **Committed**.
            B. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent **Node Refresh**.
    c. All remaining entries in the GroupKeySetList should be replaced by the remaining entries on the Node.

5. Ensure the ACLList for the Node Information Entry with the given NodeID matches the ACL attribute on the given Node. This involves the following steps:
    a. Read the ACL attribute on the Node.
    b. For each Section 11.24.5.7, “Datastore ACL Entry Type” in the ACLList of the Node Information Entry with a **Pending** Status:
        i. Add the corresponding **DatastoreACLEntry** to the Node’s ACL attribute.
            A. If successful, mark the Status to **Committed**.
            B. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent **Node Refresh**.
    c. All remaining entries in the ACLList should be replaced by the remaining entries on the Node.

6. Update the CommissioningStatusEntry for the Node Information Entry to **Committed**.

**11.24.7.12. UpdateNode Command**

The command SHALL be used to update the friendly name for a node in the **Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster**.

The data for this command is as follows:

&lt;img&gt;CSA logo&lt;/img&gt;
<footer>Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.</footer>&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1041&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 26

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td><strong>NodeID</strong></td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td><strong>Friendly-Name</strong></td>
<td>string</td>
<td>max 32</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

NodeID represents the node to be updated in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

If a Node Information Entry does not exist for the given NodeID, this command SHALL return NOT_FOUND.

**11.24.7.13. RemoveNode Command**

This command SHALL be used to remove a node from the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td><strong>NodeID</strong></td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

NodeID represents the unique identifier for the node to be removed from the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

If a Node Information Entry does not exist for the given NodeID, this command SHALL return NOT_FOUND.

**11.24.7.14. UpdateEndpointForNode Command**

This command SHALL be used to update the state of an endpoint for a node in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td><strong>EndpointID</strong></td>
<td>endpoint-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td><strong>NodeID</strong></td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td><strong>Friendly-Name</strong></td>
<td>string</td>
<td>max 32</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

EndpointID represents the unique identifier for the endpoint to be updated in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

NodeID represents the unique identifier for the node to which the endpoint belongs.

If an Endpoint Information Entry does not exist for the given NodeID and EndpointID, this command SHALL return NOT_FOUND.

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1042&lt;/page_number&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved. &lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 27

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

**11.24.7.15. AddGroupIDToEndpointForNode Command**

This command SHALL be used to add a Group ID to an endpoint for a node in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>NodeID</td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>EndpointID</td>
<td>endpoint-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>GroupID</td>
<td>group-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

GroupID represents the unique identifier for the group to be added to the endpoint.

EndpointID represents the unique identifier for the endpoint to be updated in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

NodeID represents the unique identifier for the node to which the endpoint belongs.

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:

1. Confirm that an Endpoint Information Entry exists for the given NodeID and EndpointID, and if not, return NOT_FOUND.
2. Ensure the Group Key List for the Node Information Entry with the given NodeID includes the KeySet for the given Group ID. If it does not:
    a. Add an entry for the KeySet of the given Group ID to the Group Key List. The new entry's status SHALL be set to Pending.
    b. Add a Group Key Entry for this KeySet to the given Node ID.
        i. If this succeeds, update the new KeySet entry in the Datastore to Committed.
        ii. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent Node Refresh.
3. Ensure the Group List for the Endpoint Information Entry with the given NodeID and EndpointID includes an entry for the given Group. If it does not:
    a. Add a Group entry for the given Group ID to the Group List. The new entry's status SHALL be set to Pending.
    b. Add this Group entry to the given Endpoint ID on the given Node ID.
        i. If this succeeds, update the new Group entry in the Datastore to Committed.
        ii. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent Node Refresh.

**11.24.7.16. RemoveGroupIDFromEndpointForNode Command**

This command SHALL be used to remove a Group ID from an endpoint for a node in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

&lt;img&gt;CSA Connectivity Standards Alliance logo&lt;/img&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1043&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 28

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td><strong>NodeID</strong></td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td><strong>EndpointID</strong></td>
<td>endpoint-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td><strong>GroupID</strong></td>
<td>group-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

GroupID represents the unique identifier for the group to be removed from the endpoint.

EndpointID represents the unique identifier for the endpoint to be updated in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

NodeID represents the unique identifier for the node to which the endpoint belongs.

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:

1. Confirm that an Endpoint Information Entry exists for the given NodeID and EndpointID, and if not, return NOT_FOUND.
2. Ensure the Group List for the Endpoint Information Entry with the given NodeID and EndpointID does not include an entry for the given Group. If it does:
    a. Update the status to DeletePending of the Group entry for the given Group ID in the Group List.
    b. Remove this Group entry for the given Endpoint ID on the given Node ID.
        i. If this succeeds, remove the Group entry for the given Group ID in the Group List for this NodeID and EndpointID in the Datastore.
        ii. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent Node Refresh.
3. Ensure the Group Key List for the Node Information Entry with the given NodeID does not include the KeySet for the given Group ID. If it does:
    a. Update the status to DeletePending for the entry for the KeySet of the given Group ID in the Group Key List.
    b. Remove the Group Key Entry for this KeySet from the given Node ID.
        i. If this succeeds, remove the KeySet entry for the given Node ID.
        ii. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent Node Refresh.

**11.24.7.17. AddBindingToEndpointForNode Command**

This command SHALL be used to add a binding to an endpoint for a node in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td><strong>NodeID</strong></td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1044&lt;/page_number&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved. &lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 29

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>EndpointID</td>
<td>endpoint-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Binding</td>
<td>TargetStruct</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Binding represents the binding to be added to the endpoint.

EndpointID represents the unique identifier for the endpoint to be updated in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

NodeID represents the unique identifier for the node to which the endpoint belongs.

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:

1. Confirm that an Endpoint Information Entry exists for the given NodeID and EndpointID, and if not, return NOT_FOUND.
2. Ensure the Binding List for the Node Information Entry with the given NodeID includes the given Binding. If it does not:
    a. Add the Binding to the Binding List for the Node Information Entry for the given NodeID. The new entry's status SHALL be set to **Pending**.
    b. Add this Binding to the given Node ID.
        i. If this succeeds, update the new Binding in the Datastore to **Committed**.
        ii. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent **Node Refresh**.

### 11.24.7.18. RemoveBindingFromEndpointForNode Command

This command SHALL be used to remove a binding from an endpoint for a node in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>ListID</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>EndpointID</td>
<td>endpoint-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>NodeID</td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

ListID represents the unique identifier for the binding to be removed from the endpoint.

EndpointID represents the unique identifier for the endpoint to be updated in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

NodeID represents the unique identifier for the node to which the endpoint belongs.

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:

<footer>&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt; Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.</footer>&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1045&lt;/page_number&gt;

---


## Page 30

Matter Specification R1.4
Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

1. Confirm that an Endpoint Information Entry exists for the given NodeID and EndpointID, and if not, return NOT_FOUND.

2. Ensure the Binding List for the Node Information Entry with the given NodeID does not include an entry with the given ListID. If it does:
    a. Update the status to DeletePending for the given Binding in the Binding List.
    b. Remove this Binding from the given Node ID.
        i. If this succeeds, remove the given Binding from the Binding List.
        ii. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent Node Refresh.

**11.24.7.19. AddACLToNode Command**

This command SHALL be used to add an ACL to a node in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>NodeID</td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>ACLEntry</td>
<td>AccessControlEntryStruct</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

NodeID represents the unique identifier for the node to which the ACL is to be added.

ACLEntry represents the ACL to be added to the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:
1. Confirm that a Node Information Entry exists for the given NodeID, and if not, return NOT_FOUND.
2. Ensure the ACL List for the Node Information Entry with the given NodeID includes the given ACLEntry. If it does not:
    a. Add the ACLEntry to the ACL List for the Node Information Entry for the given NodeID. The new entry's status SHALL be set to Pending.
    b. Add this ACLEntry to the given Node ID.
        i. If this succeeds, update the new ACLEntry in the Datastore to Committed.
        ii. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent Node Refresh.

**11.24.7.20. RemoveACLFromNode Command**

This command SHALL be used to remove an ACL from a node in the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

The data for this command is as follows:

&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1046&lt;/page_number&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;

---


## Page 31

Matter Specification R1.4 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-27349 November 4,

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>ID</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Constraint</th>
<th>Quality</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Conformance</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>0</td>
<td>ListID</td>
<td>uint16</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>NodeID</td>
<td>node-id</td>
<td>all</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>M</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

ListID represents the unique identifier for the ACL to be removed from the Joint Fabric Datastore Cluster.

NodeID represents the unique identifier for the node from which the ACL is to be removed.

Upon receipt of this command, the Datastore SHALL:

1. Confirm that a Node Information Entry exists for the given NodeID, and if not, return NOT_FOUND.
2. Ensure the ACL List for the Node Information Entry with the given NodeID does not include the given ACLEntry. If it does:
    a. Update the status to DeletePending for the given ACLEntry in the ACL List.
    b. Remove this ACLEntry from the given Node ID.
        i. If this succeeds, remove the given ACLEntry from the ACL List.
        ii. If not successful, the pending change SHALL be applied in a subsequent Node Refresh.

# 11.25. Joint Fabric PKI Cluster

An instance of the Joint Fabric PKI Cluster only applies to Joint Fabric Administrator nodes fulfilling the role of Anchor CA.

NOTE Support for Joint Fabric PKI Cluster is provisional.

## 11.25.1. Revision History

The global ClusterRevision attribute value SHALL be the highest revision number in the table below.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Revision</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Initial revision</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 11.25.2. Classification

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Hierarchy</th>
<th>Role</th>
<th>Scope</th>
<th>PICS Code</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Base</td>
<td>Utility</td>
<td>Node</td>
<td>JFPKI</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 11.25.3. Cluster ID

&lt;img&gt;csa connectivity standards alliance&lt;/img&gt;
Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
&lt;page_number&gt;Page 1047&lt;/page_number&gt;