Only TLS Client Connections SHALL be allowed using the clusters and commands in this chapter.

# 14.3. Description

TLS compatibility will be enabled by the following features.

## 14.3.1. TLS Certificate Management

This cluster allows for the provisioning of X.509 Root Certificates and the creation of and management of X.509 Client Certificates as used with the TLS protocol implementation.

Nodes wishing to use TLS as part of Matter SHALL support the TLS Certificate Management Cluster.

Since standard Web PKI and TLS policy performs time and date validation of all X.509 certificates in the chain, Nodes supporting TLS Certificate Management SHALL support the Time Synchronization cluster with either the `NTPClient` or `TimeSyncClient` feature enabled. See Section 11.17.11, “Time Synchronization at Commissioning” and Section 11.17.12, “Time Synchronization during operation” for additional details on how time information gets set and updated.

### 14.3.1.1. TLS Root CA Certificate Management

Authentication of a server ensures that the client is connecting to the correct server and not to an impostor. TLS uses Root CA Certificates to authenticate a server during the handshake process.

Nodes wishing to provide Root CA Certificate Management SHALL support the TLS Certificate Management Cluster. In addition, Nodes SHALL provide the following.

**Certificate Authority ID (CAID)**

A Certificate Authority ID (CAID) is used to uniquely identify a provisioned TLSRCAC associated with a Fabric on a Node.

Nodes SHALL provide a mechanism where the CAID can be used to get, update, or remove the TLSRCAC associated with the CAID (see TLS Certificate Management Commands).

### 14.3.1.2. TLS Client Certificate Management

Some TLS Servers MAY choose to implement Client Certificate Authentication. To facilitate this, Nodes MAY choose to provision Client Certificate Details (`TLSClientCertificateDetailStruct`) which are associated with a Fabric for use in TLS communication. Client Certificate Details (CCD) is used to refer to the combination of client certificate, private key and chain of intermediate certificates that is needed to complete the TLS handshake during Client Authentication.

Nodes wishing to provide Client Certificate Management SHALL support the TLS Certificate Management Cluster.

**Client Certificate Details ID (CCDID)**

A Client Certificate Details ID (CCDID) is used to uniquely identify Client Certificate Details associated with a Fabric on a Node.

A Node SHALL only store a single Client Certificate Details for a particular CCDID. Nodes SHALL provide a mechanism where the CCDID can be used to retrieve, update or remove the CCD associated with the CCDID (see TLS Client Management Commands).

### TLS Client Certificate Signing Request (CSR) Procedure

TLS client certificates can be generated, installed, and rotated using the ClientCSR and ClientCSRResponse commands.

The TLS client certificate issuance process uses a freshness check by having the client send a nonce value that must be signed in addition to the signature returned inside the X.509 certificate signing request.

#### TLS Client CSR Generation, Validation, and Provisioning process

1. The client SHALL generate a random 32 byte nonce using `Crypto_DRBG()`.
2. The client SHALL send the nonce to the Node and request a CSR using the ClientCSR command. If rotating, an existing CCDID SHALL be provided.
3. The client SHALL verify the inner signature in the PKCS #10 of the CSR field in the ClientCSRResponse, per the definition of CSR signatures in PKCS #10.
4. The client SHALL verify NonceSignature field on the ClientCSRResponse is valid against the nonce value it provided in the corresponding ClientCSR command.
5. The client SHALL verify that the public key used for the NonceSignature is the same public key as the inner signature in the PKCS #10 of the CSR field.
6. The client performs a procedure not covered in this specification to create and sign a TLS Client Certificate from the returned CSR field.
7. The client SHALL provision the resulting TLS Client Certificate and any intermediate certificate chain into the NODE using the ProvisionClientCertificate command using the CCDID value returned in the ClientCSRResponse.

### 14.3.2. TLS Client Management

Nodes which have application or utility clusters that use TLS client connections SHALL support the following:

1. TLS Client Management Cluster
2. TLS Certificate Management Cluster
3. Time Synchronization Cluster

This is intended to allow provisioning on the Node of sufficient information to facilitate subsequent TLS client connections and validate the server presented certificates used in those connections.

#### 14.3.2.1. TLS Endpoints

TLS endpoints SHALL be provisioned using the ProvisionEndpoint command and removed when no longer needed using the RemoveEndpoint command. In addition, Nodes SHALL provide the following:

### 14.3.3. TLS Minimum Requirements

This section describes the minimum requirements when supporting the various TLS clusters.

#### 14.3.3.1. Minimum storage for TLS Certificates

Nodes SHALL provide enough storage space for at least 5 Root certificates per Fabric on a Node. Certain device types MAY choose to increase this minimum.

Nodes SHALL provide enough storage space for at least 2 Client Certificate Details per Fabric on a Node. Certain device types MAY choose to increase this minimum.

#### 14.3.3.2. Minimum storage for TLS Endpoints

Nodes SHALL provide enough storage to provision at least 2 TLS Endpoints per Fabric. Certain device types MAY choose to increase this minimum. In addition, Nodes SHALL be capable of at least 2 concurrent TLS client connections per Fabric using the provisioned TLS Endpoints.

## 14.4. TLS Certificate Management Cluster

This cluster is used to manage TLS CA Root and Client Certificates on a Node, which are then used by other clusters to provision and manage their usage of TLS.

Commands in this cluster uniformly use the Large Message qualifier, even when the command doesn't require it, to reduce the testing matrix.

This cluster SHALL be present on the root node endpoint when required by a device type, MAY be present on that endpoint otherwise, and SHALL NOT be present on any other Endpoint of any Node.

### 14.4.1. Revision History

The global ClusterRevision attribute value SHALL be the highest revision number in the table below.

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Revision</td>
        <td>Description</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>1</th>
        <th>Initial Release</th>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### 14.4.2. Classification

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Hierarchy</td>
        <td>Role</td>
        <td>Scope</td>
        <td>PICS Code</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>Base</th>
        <th>Utility</th>
        <th>Node</th>
        <th>TLSCERT</th>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### 14.4.3. Cluster ID

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>ID</td>
        <td>Name</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>0x0801</th>
        <th>TLS Certificate Management</th>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>