## 8.13. Microwave Oven Control Cluster

This cluster defines the requirements for the Microwave Oven Control cluster.

This cluster has dependencies with the Operational State and Microwave Oven Mode clusters. The Operational State cluster and the Microwave Oven Mode clusters, or derivatives of those clusters SHALL appear on the same endpoint as this cluster.

### 8.13.1. Revision History

The global ClusterRevision attribute value SHALL be the highest revision number in the table below.

| Revision | Description      |
|----------|------------------|
| 1        | Initial revision |

### 8.13.2. Classification

| Hierarchy | Role        | Scope    | PICS Code |
|-----------|-------------|----------|-----------|
| Base      | Application | Endpoint | MWOCTRL   |



Page 669



### 8.13.3. Cluster ID

| ID     | Name                   |
|--------|------------------------|
| 0x005F | Microwave Oven Control |

### 8.13.4. Features

This cluster SHALL support the FeatureMap bitmap attribute as defined below.

| Bit | Code    | Feature            | Conformance | Summary                                                    |
|-----|---------|--------------------|-------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| 0   | PWRNUM  | PowerAsNumber      | O.a         | Power is specified as a unitless number or a percentage    |
| 1   | WATTS   | PowerInWatts       | P, O.a      | Power is specified in Watts                                |
| 2   | PWRLMTS | PowerNumber-Limits | [PWRNUM]    | Supports the limit attributes used with the PWRNUM feature |

### 8.13.5. Attributes

| ID     | Name                     | Type         | Constraint            | Quality | Fallback | Access | Conformance |
|--------|--------------------------|--------------|-----------------------|---------|----------|--------|-------------|
| 0x0000 | <b>CookTime</b>          | elapsed-s    | 1 to Max-CookTime     |         |          | R V    | M           |
| 0x0001 | <b>MaxCookTime</b>       | elapsed-s    | 1 to 86400            | F       |          | R V    | M           |
| 0x0002 | <b>PowerSetting</b>      | uint8        | desc                  |         |          | R V    | PWRNUM      |
| 0x0003 | <b>MinPower</b>          | uint8        | 1 to 99               | F       |          | R V    | PWRLMTS     |
| 0x0004 | <b>MaxPower</b>          | uint8        | (MinPower + 1) to 100 | F       |          | R V    | PWRLMTS     |
| 0x0005 | <b>PowerStep</b>         | uint8        | desc                  | F       |          | R V    | PWRLMTS     |
| 0x0006 | <b>SupportedWatts</b>    | list[uint16] | 1 to 10               | F       |          | R V    | P, WATTS    |
| 0x0007 | <b>SelectedWattIndex</b> | uint8        | desc                  |         |          | R V    | P, WATTS    |
| 0x0008 | <b>WattRating</b>        | uint16       | all                   | F       | MS       | R V    | O           |

Page 670







#### 8.13.5.1. CookTime Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate the total cook time associated with the operation of the device.

This attribute SHALL remain unchanged during the operation of the oven unless the value is changed via a command or out-of-band action.

#### 8.13.5.2. MaxCookTime Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate the maximum value to which the CookTime attribute can be set.

#### 8.13.5.3. PowerSetting Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate the power level associated with the operation of the device.

If the MinPower, MaxPower, and PowerStep attributes are not supported:

- The minimum value of this attribute SHALL be 10,
- The maximum value of this attribute SHALL be 100,
- The value SHALL be in even multiples of 10,
- The default value SHALL be 100.

If the MinPower, MaxPower, and PowerStep attributes are supported:

- The value of this attribute SHALL be between MinPower and MaxPower inclusive.
- The value of this attribute SHALL be such that  $(\text{PowerSetting} - \text{MinPower}) \% \text{PowerStep} == 0$

#### 8.13.5.4. MinPower Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate the minimum value to which the PowerSetting attribute that can be set on the server.

#### 8.13.5.5. MaxPower Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate the maximum value to which the PowerSetting attribute that can be set on the server.

#### 8.13.5.6. PowerStep Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate the increment of power that can be set on the server.

The value of this attribute SHALL be between 1 and MaxPower inclusive.

The value of this attribute SHALL be such that  $(\text{MaxPower} - \text{MinPower}) \% \text{PowerStep} == 0$

For example, if MinPower is 1, MaxPower is 10, and PowerSetting can be set to any integer between MinPower and MaxPower, PowerStep would be set to 1.



Page 671



### 8.13.5.7. SupportedWatts Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate the list of power levels (in W) supported by the server.

### 8.13.5.8. SelectedWattIndex Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate the index into the list of SupportedWatts of the currently selected power setting.

The index SHALL be a valid index into the SupportedWatts list.

### 8.13.5.9. WattRating Attribute

This attribute SHALL indicate the rating, in Watts, of the microwave power of the oven.

Supporting this attribute can assist clients in suggesting cooking settings for various foods and beverages.

## 8.13.6. Commands

| ID   | Name                        | Direction                   | Response | Access | Conformance |
|------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|----------|--------|-------------|
| 0x00 | <b>SetCookingParameters</b> | client $\Rightarrow$ server | Y        | O      | M           |
| 0x01 | <b>AddMoreTime</b>          | client $\Rightarrow$ server | Y        | O      | O           |

### 8.13.6.1. Command Responses Impacted By the Operational State Cluster

When the [Operational State](#) cluster or a cluster derived from it is included on the same endpoint as this cluster, the server MAY respond to commands defined in this cluster with an INVALID\_IN\_STATE response if the server is unable to accept those command due to restrictions imposed by the current operational state of the device or other factors.

### 8.13.6.2. SetCookingParameters Command

This command is used to set the cooking parameters associated with the operation of the device. This command supports the following fields:

| ID | Name                    | Type      | Constraint           | Quality | Fallback | Conformance      |
|----|-------------------------|-----------|----------------------|---------|----------|------------------|
| 0  | <b>CookMode</b>         | uint8     | desc                 |         | desc     | O.b+             |
| 1  | <b>CookTime</b>         | elapsed-s | 1 to Max-CookTime    |         | 30       | O.b+             |
| 2  | <b>PowerSetting</b>     | uint8     | MinPower to MaxPower |         | MaxPower | [PWR-<br>NUM].b+ |
| 3  | <b>WattSettingIndex</b> | uint8     | desc                 |         | MS       | [WATTS].b+       |

Page 672







| ID | Name                     | Type | Constraint | Quality | Fallback | Conformance |
|----|--------------------------|------|------------|---------|----------|-------------|
| 4  | <b>StartAfterSetting</b> | bool | all        |         | false    | 0           |

#### 8.13.6.2.1. CookMode Field

This field SHALL indicate the value to which the CurrentMode attribute of the Microwave Oven Mode cluster should be set. The value of this field SHALL be one from the list of SupportedModes from the Microwave Oven Mode cluster.

If this field is missing, the CurrentMode attribute SHALL be set to a mode having the Normal mode tag.

#### 8.13.6.2.2. CookTime Field

This field SHALL indicate the CookTime associated with the operation of the device. The value of this field SHALL be subject to the constraints of the CookTime attribute of this cluster.

If this field is missing, the CookTime attribute SHALL be set to 30 seconds by the server.

#### 8.13.6.2.3. PowerSetting Field

This field SHALL indicate the PowerSetting associated with the operation of the device. The value of this field SHALL be subject to the constraints of the PowerSetting attribute of this cluster. If the PowerSetting field does not conform to the constraints of the PowerSetting attribute, the server SHALL return a CONSTRAINT\_ERROR status.

If this field is missing, the PowerSetting attribute SHALL be set to 100 if MaxPower is not supported by the server, otherwise it SHALL be set to MaxPower if the MaxPower attribute is supported by the server.

#### 8.13.6.2.4. WattSettingIndex Field

This field SHALL indicate the value to which the SelectedWattIndex attribute is set. If the value of this field is greater than or equal to the length of the SupportedWatts attribute list, the server SHALL return a CONSTRAINT\_ERROR status and the value of the SelectedWattIndex attribute SHALL be unchanged.

If this field is missing, the SelectedWattIndex attribute SHALL be set by the server to the index associated with the highest Watt setting for the selected CookMode.

#### 8.13.6.2.5. StartAfterSetting Field

This field SHALL indicate whether or not oven operation SHALL be started when the command is received.

#### 8.13.6.2.6. Effect on Receipt

If this command is received while the operational state of the server cannot support the command in that state, the server SHALL respond with an INVALID\_IN\_STATE response and the attributes and




Page 673



state SHALL remain unchanged. See [Operational State Cluster](#) for details on the operational states.

If this command is received and any fields sent with the command do not meet the constraints of any of the associated attributes (i.e. bearing the same name as the field or as described in the field description), the server SHALL respond with a response of CONSTRAINT\_ERROR and the attributes and state SHALL remain unchanged.

If the StartAfterSetting field is present in the command but the Start command of the Operational State cluster or one of its derivatives on the same endpoint as this cluster is not supported, the server SHALL respond with a response of INVALID\_COMMAND and the attributes and state SHALL remain unchanged.

Otherwise:

- The attributes associated with any included fields SHALL be set to the values of those fields.
- The attributes associated with any missing fields SHALL be set to the values as specified in descriptions of the missing fields.
- If the StartAfterSetting field is included:
  - If the value of StartAfterSetting is TRUE, oven operation SHALL start.
  - If the value of StartAfterSetting is FALSE, oven operation SHALL NOT start.

#### 8.13.6.3. AddMoreTime Command

This command is used to add more time to the CookTime attribute of the server.

This command supports these fields:

| ID | Name      | Type      | Constraint        | Quality | Fallback | Conformance |
|----|-----------|-----------|-------------------|---------|----------|-------------|
| 0  | TimeToAdd | elapsed-s | 1 to Max-CookTime |         |          | M           |

##### 8.13.6.3.1. TimeToAdd Field

This field SHALL indicate the number of seconds to be added to the CookTime attribute.

##### 8.13.6.3.2. Effect on Receipt

Upon receipt of this command, if the sum of the value of the TimeToAdd field and the current value of the CookTime attribute is greater than the MaxCookTime attribute, the server SHALL respond with a response of CONSTRAINT\_ERROR and the command SHALL be ignored.

If this command is received while the operational state of the server cannot support the command in that state, the server SHALL respond with an INVALID\_IN\_STATE response. See [Operational State Cluster](#) for details on the operational states.

Otherwise, the server SHALL add the value of the TimeToAdd field to the value of the CookTime attribute of this cluster and the server SHALL add the value of the TimeToAdd field to the value of

Page 674







the CountdownTime attribute of the Operational State cluster if that cluster or a derivative is on the same endpoint as this cluster.



Page 675



Page 676






