## 6.6. Access Control

### 6.6.1. Scope and Purpose

This section specifies the features related to controlling access to a Node's Endpoint Clusters ("Targets" hereafter) from other Nodes. The overall features are collectively named "Access Control" hereafter.

The Access Control features aim to ensure that only authorized Nodes are permitted access to given application-layer functionality exposed by the Data Model, through the Interaction Model. Access Control is the fundamental link between the Secure Channel and the Interaction Model.

In order to implement a policy of Access Control, Administrators on the fabric create and maintain a consistent distributed configuration of Access Control Lists (ACLs) across all Nodes. Each Node has an ACL containing Access Control Entries which codify the policy. The Access Control Cluster exposes a data model view of a Node's ACL which enables its maintenance. In addition to the ACL, a per-fabric [Access Restriction List](#) (ARL), which is set by the device, MAY exist. The ARL contains Access Restriction Entries, which identify the attributes, commands and events on specific endpoint clusters which are not accessible on a given fabric. The Access Control Cluster exposes a data model view of a Node's ARL, which enables its discovery.

### 6.6.2. Model

The Access Control system is rule-based with no implicit access permitted by default. Access to a Node's Targets is denied unless the Access Control system grants the required privilege level to a given Subject to interact with given Targets on that Node. Initial Access Control privileges are [bootstrapped](#) during the commissioning phase, and maintained thereafter by Administrators.

All access privileges, from the [AccessControlEntryPrivilegeEnum](#) enumeration, SHALL be granted by Access Control. Thus, the Initiator ("Subject" hereafter) of any Interaction Model action SHALL NOT succeed in executing a given action on a Node's Target unless that Node's Access Control system explicitly grants the required privilege to that Subject for that particular action.

The Access Control system grants privileges by checking and verifying all attempted access against rules explicitly codified in Access Control Entries within the Node's Access Control List and its Access Restriction List. Additionally, Access Control implicitly grants administrative access privi-

Page 426





leges to an Administrative Subject during a Node's [commissioning phase](#), with the exception of commands, attributes and events identified by the Node's Commissioning Access Restriction List.

Access Control Entries contain:

- A [FabricIndex](#) scoping the entry to the [Associated Fabric](#).
- A Privilege level granted by the entry (see [Section 9.10.5.2, “AccessControlEntryPrivilegeEnum Type”](#))
  - *View*: reading or subscribing to data
  - *Operate*: writing operational data and invoking operational commands
  - *Manage*: writing configuration data and invoking configuration commands (for example, [Binding](#) and [Group](#) Clusters access)
  - *Administer*: writing administrative data and invoking administrative commands (for example, [Access Control](#) and [Commissioning](#) Clusters access)
- A list of target Clusters to which the entry applies
- A list of source Subjects to which the entry applies
- An Authentication Mode that describes the type of secure channel authentication method to which the entry's subjects apply

Access Restriction Entries contain:

- A [FabricIndex](#) scoping the entry to the [Associated Fabric](#) (entries applied during commissioning do not include a Fabric Index)
- An endpoint to which the entry applies
- A cluster to which the entry applies
- A list of restricted data model elements (attributes, commands and events) for the cluster

### 6.6.2.1. Subjects

The meaning of a "Subject" is primarily that of describing the source for an action, using a given authentication method provided by the Secure Channel architecture. A subject SHALL be one of:

- A passcode, identified by a Passcode ID, authenticated locally by a [PASE](#) session, during the commissioning phase.
- Note that any Passcode ID other than 0, which is the default commissioning passcode, is reserved for future use.
- Furthermore, ACL entries with a PASE authentication mode SHALL NOT be explicitly added to the Access Control List, since there is an invisible implicit administrative entry (see [Section 6.6.2.9, “Bootstrapping of the Access Control Cluster”](#)) always equivalently present on the Commissioner (but not the Commissioner) during PASE sessions.
- A source node, authenticated by a [CASE](#) session using its Operational Certificate, during the operational phase. The source node can be identified by its [Node ID](#) and/or by [CASE Authenticated Tags](#).



Page 427



- A destination group, identified by a destination Group ID in the message, authenticated by an Operational Group Key from the Group Key Management Cluster, during the operational phase.

#### 6.6.2.1.1. PASE and Group Subjects

Note that the subject is not considered to be an individual Node when the authentication is via passcode or group symmetric key; in these cases, the administrative root of trust is conditional only upon bearing the correct passcode during session establishment, or bearing the Operational Group Key when constructing a group message.

#### 6.6.2.1.2. Subjects identified by CASE Authenticated Tag

In contrast, a CASE Authenticated Tag (CAT) is a [special subject distinguished name](#) within the Operational Certificate shared during CASE session establishment that functions as a group-like tag. Such a tag can be applied to several Nodes, thereby facilitating management of Access Control Entries that use the same set of Nodes as subjects. Because these tags are authenticated within the CASE session context, the administrative root of trust does chain back through the individual source Node to the Fabric's [trusted root](#). This makes CATs suitable for group-like use while maintaining secure authentication and attribution ability.

Each CAT is 32-bit and equally divided into identifier value and its corresponding version:

- The upper 16-bits are allocated to identifier value
- The lower 16-bits are allocated to the version number

The identifier value uniquely identifies a CAT.

The CAT identifier value space is allocated as described in the [Table 92, “CAT Identifier Value Allocations”](#). This table reserves space for the use of CAT identifiers that SHOULD NOT be used for any other purposes other than specified. [Table 92, “CAT Identifier Value Allocations”](#) lists the allocation rules of CAT identifiers that SHALL be used for the [Joint Fabric](#).

*Table 92. CAT Identifier Value Allocations*

| Range            | Type                     |
|------------------|--------------------------|
| 0xFFFF           | Administrator identifier |
| 0xFFFFE          | Anchor identifier        |
| 0xF000 to 0xFFFD | Reserved for future use  |
| 0x0000 to 0xEFFF | Generally available      |

The [CAT Identifier Space](#) reserves the following identifiers for special use within the context of the [Joint Fabric](#) and SHALL NOT apply to fabrics other than the [Joint Fabric](#).

- 0xFFFF SHALL represent the [Administrator CAT](#) identifier. The Administrator CAT SHALL be used to grant [Administer](#) privilege to a group of Administrator Nodes participating in the context of the [Joint Fabric](#). See [Section 12.2.4.1, “Administrator CAT”](#) for more details. The version number of the Administrator CAT SHALL be initially set to 0x0001.
- 0xFFFFE SHALL represent the [Anchor CAT](#) identifier. The Anchor CAT SHALL be used to validate

Page 428





a Node as a [Joint Fabric Anchor](#). See [Section 12.2.4.2, “Anchor CAT”](#) for more details. The version number of the Anchor CAT SHALL be initially set to 0x0001.

The version number represents the current version of specific identifier value. An Administrator MAY increment the version number on any changes in the set of Nodes sharing the given tag. Version number is a monotonically increasing natural number in the range of 1 to 65535. A version number of 0 is invalid and SHALL NOT be used. On reaching the maximum value (65535), wrap-around is not supported and the tag identifier SHOULD be retired by an Administrator since version increase will no longer be possible.

When a CAT appears in the [Subjects](#) list of an Access Control Entry, it SHALL be encoded within the CASE Authenticated Tag sub-space of [Node Identifiers](#), with the upper 32 bits set to **0xFFFF\_FFFD**. Note that this encoding cannot appear as an operational Node ID. It is merely a sub-encoding allowing the 64-bit scalars in an Access Control Entry's [Subjects](#) list to represent both Node IDs and CATs.

#### 6.6.2.1.2.1. Example CASE Authenticated Tags

- Joint Fabric Administrator Tag identifier 0xFFFF, Version 0x0001
  - CAT value: **0xFFFF\_0001**
  - Appears in Access Control Entry [Subjects](#) list as **0xFFFF\_FFFD\_FFFF\_0001**
  - Appears in [Node Operational Certificate](#) subject under OID [1.3.6.1.4.1.37244.1.6](#) with value 0xFFFF0001
    - Would appear in X.509 certificate subject under OID [1.3.6.1.4.1.37244.1.6](#) as UTF8String **FFFF0001** for signature validation purposes.
- Tag identifier 0xAB12, Version 0x0003
  - CAT value: **0xAB12\_0003**
  - Appears in Access Control Entry [Subjects](#) list as **0xFFFF\_FFFD\_AB12\_0003**
  - Appears in [Node Operational Certificate](#) subject under OID [1.3.6.1.4.1.37244.1.6](#) with value 0xAB120003
    - Would appear in X.509 certificate subject under OID [1.3.6.1.4.1.37244.1.6](#) as UTF8String **AB120003** for signature validation purposes.
- Tag identifier 0x071C, Version 0x1074
  - CAT value: **0x071C\_1074**
  - Appears in Access Control Entry [Subjects](#) list as **0xFFFF\_FFFD\_071C\_1074**
  - Appears in [Node Operational Certificate](#) subject under OID [1.3.6.1.4.1.37244.1.6](#) with value 0x071C1074
    - Would appear in X.509 certificate subject under OID [1.3.6.1.4.1.37244.1.6](#) as UTF8String **071C1074** for signature validation purposes.

#### 6.6.2.2. Wildcards

The [Subjects](#) list of an Access Control Entry MAY grant a given privilege to more than one Subject, if the Authentication Mode allows it, such as in the case of the [CASE](#) and Group Authentication Modes.



Page 429



An empty Subjects list SHALL mean that every possible Subject employing the stated Authentication Mode is granted the entry's privilege over the Targets.

The Targets list of an Access Control Entry MAY grant a given privilege to more than one Target. An empty Targets list SHALL mean that every Cluster on every Endpoint exposed by the Node is accessible using the granted privilege to any matching Subject. Each Target in the Targets list SHALL specify Cluster instances directly by Cluster ID (on any Endpoint, or limited to particular Endpoints), indirectly by Endpoint ID (all Cluster instances on that Endpoint), or indirectly by Device Type ID (all Cluster instances on all Endpoints containing that Device Type).

For both the Subjects list and Targets list of an Access Control Entry, empty lists permit a rudimentary form of "wildcard" behavior, which is especially useful for codifying policies providing common view/read/discover access to a given subset of Nodes based on Authentication Mode.

**CAUTION**

Given that "wildcard" (that is, **any** subject/target) granting is possible with an empty Subjects list or an empty Targets list, it follows that care must be taken by Administrators generating and distributing Access Control Lists to ensure unintended access does not arise. It is RECOMMENDED to avoid updating Access Control Entries in such a way as to remove Subjects or Targets one by one, which may result in a wildcard after individual actions. Rather, entire Targets/Subjects lists SHOULD be written atomically in a single action, to ensure a complete final state is achieved, with either wildcard or not, and that no accidental wildcards arise. Furthermore, such ACL entries with wildcard subject should be deployed with care as they grant the named privilege level to potentially many senders, especially when Group Authentication Mode is specified.

#### 6.6.2.3. Subjects do not correspond to users

The Subjects for an Access Control Entry are logical subjects, configured through policy by an Administrator, including possibly a Commissioner during the commissioning phase. A given implementation of administrative logic MAY assign authentication identities to Nodes directly associated with physical end-users (for example, a mobile device of a given end-user). However, since Nodes are logical networking entities, the specific policy of how Node identities are mapped to physical end-users and physical devices is implementation-specific. Therefore, the access granted by a given Node's Access Control system should not be construed as having any particular meaning in regards to physical end-users other than the fact that a given set of Administrators computed a consistent set of Access Control Lists to effect a desired system functionality across all Nodes they administer and end-users they represent.

#### 6.6.2.4. Implementation-specific Rules

Since the target of a given Access Control Entry is a list of Targets, and since Targets (that is, Clusters on Endpoints) are Interaction Model constructs, it should be assumed that access control functionality as described within this model is constrained to the interaction model layer. However, constraints on incoming session establishment requests MAY be affected by the Access Control system, based on implementation-defined rules. For example, a Node MAY deny [CASE](#) session establishment from an initiator whose identity doesn't match any Access Control Entry. These types of rules are implementation-specific and SHOULD be carefully considered, if applied at all. For example, due to

Page 430





the richness of Access Control Entry encoding for Subjects, significant care has to be taken to avoid incorrectly rejecting an incoming [CASE](#) session establishment that could be valid. Rejecting valid connections could cause a Node to become unreachable. Any constraints on transport-level and network-level functionality, including but not limited to the availability of commissioning-mode connectivity, are out of Access Control scope.

#### 6.6.2.5. Incoming Subject Descriptors

The Message Layer SHALL provide sufficient metadata (e.g. Authentication Mode, source identity) about incoming messages to the Interaction Model protocol layer in order to properly enforce Access Control.

An Incoming Subject Descriptor (ISD) is a mapping from the security layer fields of an incoming Message to a tuple of `<AuthMode, SubjectDescriptor>` that can map unambiguously to an Access Control Entry's [Subjects](#) and [AuthMode](#) fields. See [Section 6.6.6.1.3, “Incoming Subject Descriptor \(ISD\) Structure”](#) for further details.

#### 6.6.2.6. Access Control Extensions

An implementation MAY use [Access Control Extensions](#) to extend the base Access Control model. Since all extensions are installed by Administrators for a fabric, it is expected that only extensions that would improve overall security will be applied. Since every Vendor MAY implement extensions as they see fit, it SHOULD NOT be expected that an extension will be supported by every Node. It is therefore RECOMMENDED that careful consideration of interoperability concerns be given when implementing Access Control Extensions. A fabric's Administrators MAY always read a given Node's Access Control Entries and Access Control Extensions pertaining to the fabric. Therefore, Administrators MAY use extensions to record auditing metadata about Access Control Entries which are not for operational use by the Node.

A Node SHALL preserve every field of the installed Access Control Cluster, including extensions when present, without internally-initiated modifications, so that they may be read-back verbatim upon receiving an appropriate request from an Administrator.

#### 6.6.2.7. Application-level Permissions

The Access Control Cluster SHALL NOT be used to encode application-level permissions and configurations such as smart lock PIN codes or similar user-facing security functionality. Application-level security is best served by finer-grained capabilities described and addressed by application-domain-specific clusters.

#### 6.6.2.8. Access Restrictions

An Access Control Entry in the ACL describes permissions granted by the fabric Administrator. In contrast, an Access Restriction Entry in the ARL describes restrictions imposed by the device. The ARL restrictions override permissions granted in the ACL.

#### 6.6.2.9. Bootstrapping of the Access Control Cluster

Updates to the Access Control List through Access Control Cluster attributes and commands SHALL be restricted by the same Access Control mechanisms as all other clusters on the Node, and there-



Page 431



fore require a grant of **Administer** privilege. Administrators are able to bootstrap a Node's Access Control List during the [commissioning phase](#) due to the [Access Control Privilege Granting algorithm](#) implicitly granting the **Administer** privilege to Administrative Subject Nodes over a PASE commissioning channel; this implicit privilege grant applies for the Commissioner to administer the Commissioner, but not in the opposite direction.

#### 6.6.2.10. Action attribution

The recording of a given Interaction Model Action's attribution to a source entity is distinct from the contents of an Access Control Entry. Action Attribution SHALL be recorded against the Incoming Subject Descriptor (see [Section 6.6.6.1.3, "Incoming Subject Descriptor \(ISD\) Structure"](#)) rather than against any matched Access Control Entry's contents.

#### 6.6.2.11. Restrictions on Administer Level Privilege Grant

Since the **Administer** privilege level grants wide access to a Node for a given Subject, it SHALL NOT be valid to have an **Administer** privilege set on an Access Control Entry, unless **AuthMode** is "CASE". For example, an **AuthMode** of "Group", which admits no source Node authentication and reduced attribution ability, SHALL NOT be used to grant **Administer** privilege.

### 6.6.3. Access Control List Examples

The following Access Control Lists illustrate the flexibility of codifying access control policy using concrete examples.

Upon Factory Data Reset, the Access Control Cluster is empty, having an Access Control List with no entries.

```
Access Control Cluster: {  
  ACL: [],           // empty  
  Extension: [], // empty (omitted hereafter)  
  ARL: []           // empty for this example (omitted hereafter)  
}
```

However, the Access Control Privilege Granting algorithm behaves as if, over a PASE commissioning channel during the [commissioning phase](#), the following implicit Access Control Entry were present on the Commissioner (but not the Commissioner) to grant **Administer** privilege for the entire Node.

```
Access Control Cluster: {  
  ACL: [  
    0: {           // implicit entry only; does not explicitly exist!  
      FabricIndex: 0,      // not fabric-specific  
      Privilege: Administer,  
      AuthMode: PASE,  
      Subjects: [],  
    },  
  ],  
}
```

Page 432





```
    Targets: []           // entire node
    }
  ]
}
```

During the commissioning phase, the [AddNOC](#) command automatically creates an Access Control Entry granting **Administer** privilege for the appropriate [CaseAdminSubject](#).

In the scenario the node is being commissioned onto a separately-administered fabric, **Administer** privilege is granted for the entire Node, using the appropriate CASE authenticated Subject (in this case, Node ID 0xAAAA\_AAAA\_AAAA\_AAAA) on the appropriate Fabric (in this case, Fabric 0xFAB0\_0000\_0000\_001D as Fabric index 1).

```
Access Control Cluster: {
  ACL: [
    0: {
      FabricIndex: 1,
      Privilege: Administer,
      AuthMode: CASE,
      Subjects: [ 0xAAAA_AAAA_AAAA_AAAA ],
      Targets: []
    }
  ]
}
```

In the scenario the node is being commissioned onto the Joint Fabric the **Administer** privilege SHALL be granted for all Nodes with the Administrator CAT as the [CaseAdminSubject](#) (in this case, 0xFFFF\_FFFD\_FFFF\_0001) on the appropriate Fabric (in this case, Fabric 0xFAB0\_0000\_0000\_001D as Fabric index 1).

```
Access Control Cluster: {
  ACL: [
    0: {
      FabricIndex: 1,
      Privilege: Administer,
      AuthMode: CASE,
      Subjects: [ 0xFFFF_FFFD_FFFF_0001 ],
      Targets: []
    }
  ]
}
```

An Administrator adds an Access Control Entry which grants **View** privilege, for the entire Node, to



Page 433



all CASE authenticated Nodes.

```
Access Control Cluster: {  
  ACL: [  
    ...  
    1: {  
      FabricIndex: 1,  
      Privilege: View,  
      AuthMode: CASE,  
      Subjects: [],  
      Targets: []  
    }  
  ]  
}
```

An Administrator adds an Access Control Entry which grants **Manage** privilege, for endpoints 1 and 3, to any Nodes which can authenticate as members of Group 1.

```
Access Control Cluster: {  
  ACL: [  
    ...  
    2: {  
      FabricIndex: 1,  
      Privilege: Manage,  
      AuthMode: Group,  
      Subjects: [ 0x0000_0000_0000_0001 ],  
      Targets: [ { Endpoint: 1 }, { Endpoint: 3 } ]  
    }  
  ]  
}
```

An Administrator revises this Access Control Entry to grant the same privilege, for only the pump configuration and control cluster (0x0202) on endpoint 3, and for any door lock cluster (0x0101) on the entire Node, to the same Nodes.

```
Access Control Cluster: {  
  ACL: [  
    ...  
    2: {  
      FabricIndex: 1,  
      Privilege: Manage,  
      AuthMode: Group,  
    }  
  ]  
}
```

Page 434





```

Subjects: [ 0x0000_0000_0000_0001 ],
Targets: [ { Endpoint: 1 }, { Endpoint: 3, Cluster: 0x0000_0202 }, { Cluster:
0x0000_0101 } ]
    }
]
}
```

An Administrator adds an Access Control Entry which grants **Operate** privilege, for all endpoints containing the extended color light device (0x010D) on the entire Node, to CASE authenticated Nodes 0x1111\_1111\_1111\_1111 and 0x2222\_2222\_2222\_2222.

```

Access Control Cluster: {
  ACL: [
    ...
    3: {
      FabricIndex: 1,
      Privilege: Operate,
      AuthMode: CASE,
      Subjects: [ 0x1111_1111_1111_1111, 0x2222_2222_2222_2222 ],
      Targets: [ { DeviceType: 0x0000_010D } ]
    }
  ]
}
```

A Commissioner adds four more Nodes into an existing fabric. These new Nodes have Node IDs 0x3333\_3333\_3333\_3333, 0x4444\_4444\_4444\_4444, 0x5555\_5555\_5555\_5555 and 0x6666\_6666\_6666\_6666 respectively. The Fabric Administration policy requires associating these four nodes and an existing node (0x2222\_2222\_2222\_2222) into a CAT group.

To achieve this, an Administrator will issue NOCs to all five nodes in this CAT group with a CAT value of 0xABCD\_0001, which is tag identifier value 0xABCD and version 1, and encoded as subject value 0xFFFF\_FFFD\_ABCD\_0001. To distribute these CATs, an Administrator obtains NOCs from its certificate authority with the requisite subjects including the desired CAT. They are either initially provisioned with the **AddNOC** command during initial commissioning (for the new Nodes) or updated with **UpdateNOC** (for existing Nodes).

Then the Administrator grants permissions to the five nodes by updating the ACL of all relevant targets by adding an entry with subject of **CAT** (0xFFFF\_FFFD\_ABCD\_0001). The Administrator may also remove entries where Node 0x2222\_2222\_2222\_2222 appears as an explicit Subject if presentation of the CAT identifier value 0xABCD and version value 0x0001 confers an equivalent privilege. Note that any Node with CAT identifier value of 0xABCD and version value 0x0001 or higher in their NOC will have this privilege.

```

Access Control Cluster: {
  ACL: [
```



Page 435



```

  ...
  3: {
    FabricIndex: 1,
    Privilege: Operate,
    AuthMode: CASE,
    Subjects: [ 0x1111_1111_1111_1111, 0xFFFF_FFFD_ABCD_0001],
    Targets: [ { DeviceType: 0x0000_010D } ]
  }
]
}

```

An Administrator wants to remove the Node with Node ID 0x3333\_3333\_3333\_3333 from the CAT group defined by CAT identifier value of 0xABCD, as installed in the previous example.

The Administrator could follow the steps outlined below:

1. Administrator will ensure that the removed node having Node ID 0x3333\_3333\_3333\_3333 will not receive a new NOC with an CAT identifier value of 0xABCD. Note that the node removed from the group will continue to hold existing NOC (with CAT identifier of 0xABCD and version 0x0001).
2. An Administrator updates NOCs with CAT identifier value of 0xABCD and version 0x0002 (encoded as subject 0xFFFF\_FFFD\_ABCD\_0002) in all remaining currently reachable Nodes within the CAT group to ensure they continue to have same privilege as before. In this example, Nodes having Node IDs 0x2222\_2222\_2222\_2222, 0x4444\_4444\_4444\_4444 and 0x5555\_5555\_5555\_5555 are currently reachable.
3. Node with Node ID 0x6666\_6666\_6666\_6666 from this CAT group is a valid member but was not reachable by an Administrator at the time of this change. This Node will continue to hold existing NOC with CAT of 0xABCD\_0001.
4. After updating NOCs of all reachable Nodes, the Administrator SHOULD revise the Access Control Entry of all reachable nodes who have the previous CAT (encoded as subject 0xFFFF\_FFFD\_ABCD\_0001) in an ACL entry, to remove privilege from the Node no longer in the grouping (i.e. those with version 0x0001) by increasing trusted version value to be higher than 0x0001. The Administrator decides to increment version value by one to set the new version value to be 0x0002.
5. Once ACL changes are propagated to all controlled nodes, they will no longer allow access privileges to any Node with older version (i.e. value less than 0x0002) of CAT identifier value 0xABCD. Hence, the node removed from the group, having Node ID 0x3333\_3333\_3333\_3333 and CAT with identifier 0xABCD and version of 0x0001, can no longer access any of the controlled nodes whose ACL entries were updated to have a subject of 0xFFFF\_FFFD\_ABCD\_0002 (CAT identifier value 0xABCD, version 0x0002).
6. Node having Node ID of 0x6666\_6666\_6666\_6666 will not be able to access any Nodes by relying on CAT, since it does not have an NOC with latest CAT (with version 0x0002). However, it can still access Nodes that list it as a subject Node ID explicitly. When an Administrator eventually establishes connection to this Node, the Administrator SHOULD update the NOC to the latest version, with CAT set to 0xABCD\_0002. After having its NOC updated to have the newest version of the

Page 436

  




CAT, the Node with Node ID 0x6666\_6666\_6666\_6666 will again have access to Nodes that list subject 0xFFFF\_FFFD\_ABCD\_0002 (CAT identifier value 0xABCD, version 0x0002), with no further updates to ACL entries of existing Nodes.

7. Any controlled Node which previously held an ACL Entry with prior version of the updated CAT (subject 0xFFFF\_FFFD\_ABCD\_0001) but was not reachable by an Administrator at the time of update, will continue to hold the previous Access Control Entry with a subject allowing CAT with identifier of 0xABCD and version 0x0001 or higher. Thus, these Nodes will grant privileges to any Node from the original CAT group (including Node ID 0x3333\_3333\_3333\_3333). When an Administrator eventually establishes connection to this Node with older ACL entry, the Administrator SHOULD update it with the latest value, so that Node ID 0x3333\_3333\_3333\_3333 no longer has privileges.

Note that in the above example, the CAT identifier value remained the same (0xABCD) in NOCs and ACL entries throughout these steps. Only the version portion was updated to effect changes to the meaning of the CAT.

As can be seen in the example above, there are multiple steps involving updates to NOCs and ACL entries to affect CAT-based grouping and aliasing policies. It is therefore possible that some Nodes may not receive these changes immediately, due to network reachability issues, such as being powered down for an extended period, and thus have ACL entries or NOCs that grant temporarily obsolete privileges. This is true as well with direct Node ID subjects, in general.

Administrators SHOULD aim for best-effort eventual consistency while executing the steps outlined above.

```
Access Control Cluster: {
  ACL: [
    ...
    3: {
      FabricIndex: 1,
      Privilege: Operate,
      AuthMode: CASE,
      Subjects: [ 0x1111_1111_1111_1111, 0xFFFF_FFFD_ABCD_0002 ],
      Targets: [ { DeviceType: 0x0000_010D } ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## 6.6.4. Access Control Cluster update side-effects

Updates to the Access Control Cluster SHALL take immediate effect in the Access Control system. For example, given an Interaction Model action message containing the following actions, the Access Control Privilege Granting algorithm would grant a privilege of **None** for the second action, since the first action would take effect immediately beforehand.

- Pre-conditions:



Page 437



- Access Control List has single entry: `[[{Privilege: Administrator, Authmode: CASE (2), Subjects: [0x0011223344556677], Targets: []}]`
- Node ID 0x0011223344556677 over CASE is allowed **Administrator** privilege for all targets
- Incoming message Source is Node ID 0x0011223344556677 over CASE: matches Access Control Entry subject
- Actions:
  1. Action: Write (1st path)
    1. Path: Endpoint[0]/Cluster[AccessControl]/Attribute[ACL]/ListIndex[0]/Field[Targets]
    2. Value: `[[{Endpoint: 2}]]`
      - Single entry updated to target only Endpoint 2
    3. **Granted:** Administrator privilege granted, due to Access Control Entry match
  2. Action: Write (2nd path)
    1. Path: Endpoint[1]/Cluster[OnOff]/Attribute[OnTime]
    2. **Denied:** No privilege granted, because prior action **in the same message** had updated Access Control List to only allow access to Endpoint 2, and this action targets Endpoint 1
- Post-conditions:
  - Access Control List has single entry, updated by first path of Write Action: `[[{Privilege: Administrator, Authmode: CASE (2), Subjects: [0x0011223344556677], Targets: [{Endpoint: 2}]}]]`
  - Node ID 0x0011223344556677 over CASE is allowed **Administrator** privilege for only Endpoint 2 target

Note that in this example, the Node has inadvertently lost its ability to update the Access Control Cluster by limiting its Administrator privilege to Endpoint 2.

### 6.6.5. Access Control Cluster handling of Access Restrictions

In the example above, the ARL was empty, meaning that there were no access restrictions imposed upon the fabric by the device. However, the following Access Control Cluster examples illustrate how access restrictions would impact access granted to a given client.

Upon Factory Data Reset, the Access Control Cluster has an Access Control List with no entries, an Access Restriction List with no entries, and a CommissioningARL set by the device which applies during commissioning sessions.

```
Access Control Cluster: {
  ACL: [],           // empty
  Extension: [], // empty (omitted hereafter)
  CommissioningARL: [
    0: {
      Endpoint: 1,           // application endpoint 1
      Cluster: 0x0453,      // application cluster 0x0453
    }
  ]
}
```

Page 438





```

Restrictions: [
  0: {
    Type: AttributeAccessForbidden, // access limitation for attribute
    Id: 0x0000                      // attribute 0x0000
  },
  1: {
    Type: CommandForbidden, // command limitation
    Id: NULL                // all commands
  },
  2: {
    Type: EventForbidden, // event limitation
    Id: NULL              // all events
  }
]
}
ARL: []           // empty
}

```

Upon allocation of a new FabricIndex during commissioning (see [Section 11.18.6.8, “AddNOC Command”](#)), one or more ARL entries with the new FabricIndex MAY be added to the ARL attribute at the time that the initial ACL entry for the new FabricIndex is added. Until CommissioningComplete command is invoked in the GeneralCommissioning cluster, the CommissioningARL continues to apply.

Example:

```

Access Control Cluster: {
  ACL: [
    0: {
      FabricIndex: 1,
      Privilege: Administer,
      AuthMode: CASE,
      Subjects: [ 0xAAAA_AAAA_AAAA_AAAA ],
      Targets: []
    }
  ],
  Extension: [], // empty (omitted hereafter)
  CommissioningARL: [
    0: {
      Endpoint: 1,           // application endpoint 1
      Cluster: 0x0453,      // application cluster 0x0453
      Restrictions: [

```



Page 439



```

0: {
    Type: AttributeAccessForbidden, // access limitation for attribute
    Id: 0x0000                          // attribute 0x0000
},
1: {
    Type: CommandForbidden, // command limitation
    Id: NULL                  // all commands
},
2: {
    Type: EventForbidden, // event limitation
    Id: NULL                  // all events
}
]
}
]
ARL: [
0: {
    FabricIndex: 1,
    Endpoint: 1,              // application endpoint 1
    Cluster: 0x0453,         // application cluster 0x0453
    Restrictions: [
        0: {
            Type: AttributeAccessForbidden, // access limitation for attribute
            Id: 0x0000                          // attribute 0x0000
        },
        1: {
            Type: CommandForbidden, // command limitation
            Id: NULL                  // all commands
        },
        2: {
            Type: EventForbidden, // event limitation
            Id: NULL                  // all events
        }
    ]
}
]
}
]

```

In this example, the restrictions during commissioning, expressed by the `CommissioningARL` attribute, include 3 limitations on Cluster 0x0453 of Endpoint 1: access to attribute 0x0000, all commands, all events. The restrictions for the fabric at `FabricIndex` 1, expressed by the `ARL` attribute, include the same 3 limitations on Cluster 0x0453 of Endpoint 1.

Page 440





The CommissioningARL and ARL attributes SHALL NOT include limitations that would prevent commissioning (see [Section 9.10.4.2.1, “Managed Device Feature Usage Restrictions”](#)). If a wildcard restriction appears in the ARL that would restrict access in such a case, the wildcard MAY appear but the restriction SHALL NOT take effect.

Superimposing this ARL value upon the example earlier in this section, when an Administrator adds, for example, an Access Control Entry which grants **Operate** privilege for the entire Node, to all CASE-authenticated subjects), this grant MAY be further limited by restrictions imposed by the ARL. In other words, even though the ACL entry grants **Operate** privilege to all data model elements, attempts to read or write attribute 0x0000, or to invoke commands upon Cluster 0x0453 of Endpoint 1 would result in an error of ACCESS\_RESTRICTED, since the Access Restriction List is a subsequent overriding of an initial privilege granted.

```
Access Control Cluster: {
  ACL: [
    ...
    1: {
      FabricIndex: 1,
      Privilege: View,
      AuthMode: CASE,
      Subjects: [],
      Targets: []
    }
  ],
  CommissioningARL [ ... ], // (omitted hereafter)
  ARL: [
    0: {
      FabricIndex: 1,
      Endpoint: 1,           // application endpoint 1
      Cluster: 0x0453,      // application cluster 0x0453
      Restrictions: [
        0: {
          Type: AttributeAccessForbidden, // access limitation for attribute
          Id: 0x0000                       // attribute 0x0000
        },
        1: {
          Type: CommandForbidden, // command limitation
          Id: NULL                // all commands
        },
        2: {
          Type: EventForbidden, // event limitation
          Id: NULL              // all events
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```



Page 441



```
    }  
  ]  
}
```

Updates to the ARL attribute can happen at any time, for example, as a result of configuration changes made by the user within an external management user interface, out of band of the Matter protocol. In particular, the fabric Administrator can request that the device initiates a review of fabric restrictions using the `ReviewFabricRestrictions` command on the Access Control Cluster. This command returns a `ReviewFabricRestrictionsResponse` containing a `Token` which can be used to correlate with a `FabricRestrictionReviewUpdate` event, indicating completion of the fabric restriction review. Such a review can result in an asynchronous update to the ARL attribute and an `AccessRestrictionEntryChanged` event.

In this example, after the fabric restriction review, the ARL value is updated: the result is a single limitation on Cluster 0x0453 of Endpoint 1: access to command 0x0000. In other words, restrictions on attributes and events on Cluster 0x0453 of Endpoint 1 have been removed, and all command restrictions on the cluster except command 0x0000 have been removed.

```
Access Control Cluster: {  
  ACL: [  
    ...  
    1: {  
      FabricIndex: 1,  
      Privilege: View,  
      AuthMode: CASE,  
      Subjects: [],  
      Targets: []  
    }  
  ],  
  ARL: [  
    ...  
    1: {  
      FabricIndex: 1,  
      Endpoint: 1,           // application endpoint 1  
      Cluster: 0x0453,       // application cluster 0x0453  
      Restrictions: [  
        0: {  
          Type: CommandForbidden, // command limitation  
          Id: 0x0000               // command 0x0000  
        }  
      ]  
    }  
  ]  
}
```

Page 442





}

## 6.6.6. Conceptual Access Control Privilege Granting Algorithm

This section describes an overall Conceptual Access Control Privilege Granting algorithm. Implementations of this algorithm SHALL have an identical outcome to the output of this conceptual algorithm described below.

The Interaction Model protocol, through its message handling, SHALL determine the privilege level granted per Target, on every instance where a Target is referenced for use.

### 6.6.6.1. Necessary Data Structures

#### 6.6.6.1.1. Access Control List

The [Access Control List](#) contains several [Access Control Entries](#), previously described in [Section 6.6.2, “Model”](#).

The entry fields are:

- Subjects List ([subject-id\[\] Subjects](#))
- Targets List ([AccessControlTargetStruct\[\] Targets](#))
- Authentication Mode value ([AccessControlEntryAuthModeEnum AuthMode](#))
- Privilege value ([AccessControlEntryPrivilegeEnum Privilege](#))

#### 6.6.6.1.2. Access Restriction List

The [Access Restriction List](#) contains several [Access Restriction Entries](#), previously described in [Section 6.6.2, “Model”](#).

The entry fields are:

- Endpoint ([endpoint-no Endpoint](#))
- Cluster ([cluster-id Cluster](#))
- Restrictions List ([AccessRestrictionStruct\[\] Restrictions](#))

#### 6.6.6.1.3. Incoming Subject Descriptor (ISD) Structure

Each incoming message has a unique [〈AuthMode, SubjectDescriptor〉](#) applicable to it, whose derivation is deterministic based on both incoming message fields and session metadata fields. For example, if a message arrives that matches a given CASE Session ID, then the metadata for that CASE session would be used.

Computation of the ISD is described in [Section 6.6.6.3, “Derivation of ISD from Incoming Message”](#).

The ISD fields are as follows:

- Commissioning Flag ([bool IsCommissioning](#)), whether the authentication is over a commissioning channel for an ongoing commissioning.



Page 443



- Authentication Mode (`AuthModeEnum AuthMode`), mapping to an authentication mode, directly comparable to `Access Control Entry AuthMode`.
- Subjects List (`list<SubjectID> Subjects`), mapping incoming message source to a type of subject, such as a CASE session Source Node ID.
- Fabric Index (`FabricIndex FabricIndex`), mapping to a fabric reference.

#### 6.6.6.2. Overall Algorithm

The algorithm takes as input:

- the Access Control List (`acl`) from the Access Control Cluster
- the Privilege (`request_privilege`) required for the given request
- the ISD of Incoming Message (`subject_desc`)
- the Endpoint ID (`endpoint_id`) for which the querier requires a Privilege level
- the Cluster ID (`cluster_id`) for which the querier requires a Privilege level
- the Cluster Element (`cluster_element`) for which the querier requires a Privilege level
- the Request Type (`request_type`) for which the querier requires a Privilege level (ReadAttribute, ReadEvent, WriteAttribute, InvokeCommand)
- the ARL attribute (`arl_attr`) from the Access Control Cluster
- the CommissioningARL attribute (`commissioning_arl_attr`) from the Access Control Cluster

The output of the algorithm is:

- The access control status of the request, which is one of {AccessGranted, AccessRestricted, AccessDenied}.

The algorithm first determines the set of privileges granted for the Action Path, which is a subset of {View, Operate, Manage, Administer} as described in [AccessControlEntryPrivilegeEnum](#). If the Privilege required for the request is contained within this set, and the request is not restricted by the Access Restriction List, then the AccessGranted status is returned. If the Privilege required for the request is contained within this set, and the request is restricted by the Access Restriction List, then the AccessRestricted status is returned. Otherwise, the AccessDenied status is returned.

The computation of the ISD is a pre-condition to the algorithm and is described in [Section 6.6.6.3, “Derivation of ISD from Incoming Message”](#).

The goal is to find the complete set of privileges granted given the input. The principle of least privilege is respected by virtue of the entire Access Control List having been computed with rules such that the least privilege is granted to all subjects. Therefore, any Access Control Entry granting the [required privilege](#) to the subject for a given target is sufficient to determine whether access is allowed.

The algorithm SHALL function as follows:

```
def subject_matches(acl_subject, isd_subject):
```

Page 444





```
# Subjects must match exactly, or both are CAT
# with matching CAT ID and acceptable CAT version
return (acl_subject == isd_subject) or
    (is_cat(acl_subject) and is_cat(isd_subject) and
     (get_cat_id(acl_subject) == get_cat_id(isd_subject)) and
     (get_cat_version(isd_subject) >= get_cat_version(acl_subject)))

def add_granted_privilege(granted_privileges, privilege):
    # Add the new privilege to the granted privileges set
    granted_privileges.add(privilege)
    # Also add any privileges subsumed by the new privilege
    if (privilege == PrivilegeEnum.Operate):
        granted_privileges.add(PrivilegeEnum.View)
    elif (privilege == PrivilegeEnum.Manage):
        granted_privileges.add(PrivilegeEnum.Operate)
        granted_privileges.add(PrivilegeEnum.View)
    elif (privilege == PrivilegeEnum.Administer):
        granted_privileges.add(PrivilegeEnum.Manage)
        granted_privileges.add(PrivilegeEnum.Operate)
        granted_privileges.add(PrivilegeEnum.View)

def get_granted_privileges(acl, subject_desc, endpoint_id, cluster_id) ->
set[Privilege]:
    # Granted privileges set is initially empty
    granted_privileges = set()

    # PASE commissioning channel implicitly grants administer privilege to commissioner
    if subject_desc.AuthMode == AuthModeEnum.PASE and
    subject_desc.IsCommissioneeDuringCommissioning():
        add_granted_privilege(granted_privileges, PrivilegeEnum.Administer)

    for acl_entry in acl:
        # End checking if highest privilege is granted
        if PrivilegeEnum.Administer in granted_privileges: break

        # FabricIndex must match, there are no valid entries with FabricIndex == 0
        # other than the implicit PASE entry, which we will not see explicitly in the
        # access control list
        if acl_entry.FabricIndex == 0: continue
        if acl_entry.FabricIndex != subject_desc.FabricIndex: continue

        # Auth mode must match
        if acl_entry.AuthMode != subject_desc.AuthMode: continue
```



Page 445



```
# Subject must match, or be "wildcard"
if is_empty(acl_entry.Subjects):
    # Precondition: only CASE and Group auth can have empty subjects
    assert(acl_entry.AuthMode in [AuthModeEnum.CASE, AuthModeEnum.Group])
    # Empty is wildcard, no match required
else:
    # Non-empty requires a match
    matched_subject = False
    for acl_subject in acl_entry.Subjects:
        for isd_subject in subject_desc.Subjects:
            if subject_matches(acl_subject, isd_subject):
                matched_subject = True
                break
        if matched_subject: break
    if not matched_subject: continue

# Target must match, or be "wildcard"
if is_empty(acl_entry.Targets):
    # Empty is wildcard, no match required
else:
    # Non-empty requires a match
    matched_target = False
    for target in acl_entry.Targets:
        # Precondition: target cannot be empty
        assert(target.Cluster != null or target.Endpoint != null or target.DeviceType
!= null)
        # Precondition: target cannot specify both endpoint and device type
        assert(target.Endpoint == null or target.DeviceType == null)
        # Cluster must match, or be wildcard
        if target.Cluster != null and target.Cluster != cluster_id:
            continue
        # Endpoint must match, or be wildcard
        if target.Endpoint != null and target.Endpoint != endpoint_id:
            continue
        # Endpoint may be specified indirectly via device type
        if target.DeviceType != null and not
endpoint_contains_device_type(endpoint_id, target.DeviceType):
            continue
        matched_target = True
        break
    if not matched_target: continue
```

Page 446





```
# Extensions processing must not fail
if not extensions_are_valid(acl, acl_entry, subject_desc, endpoint_id,
cluster_id): continue

# All checks have passed, add privilege to granted privilege set
add_granted_privilege(granted_privileges, acl_entry.privilege)

# Should never grant Administer privilege to a Group.
if subject_desc.AuthMode == AuthModeEnum.Group:
    assert (PrivilegeEnum.Administer not in granted_privileges)

return granted_privileges

# Note that `arl` is either the `arl_attr` or `commissioning_arl_attr`.
def is_request_restricted(arl, subject_desc, request_type, endpoint_id, cluster_id,
cluster_element):
    # Handles ensuring that only endpoints and clusters for which access restrictions
    are allowed
    # are subject to the restriction. Only mandatory clusters on endpoints with device
    type allowing
    # Managed Device ACL cluster feature can be restricted. Some specific clusters and
    elements can
    # never be restricted. See the Managed Device feature section of the ACL cluster for
    details.
    if are_restrictions_disallowed(request_type, endpoint_id, cluster_id,
cluster_element):
        return False

    for arl_entry in arl:
        if not subject_desc.IsCommissioning:
            if arl_entry.FabricIndex != subject_desc.FabricIndex: continue

        if arl_entry.Endpoint != endpoint_id: continue

        if arl_entry.Cluster != cluster_id: continue

        for arl_restriction in arl_entry.Restrictions:
            # if the restriction is attribute access
            if arl_restriction.Type == AccessRestrictionTypeEnum.AttributeAccessForbidden
and request_type in [RequestTypeEnum.AttributeRead, RequestTypeEnum.AttributeWrite]:
                # if the attribute id is NULL (wildcard) or matches the cluster_element
                if arl_restriction.ID == NULL or arl_restriction.ID == cluster_element:
                    # then no granted privileges
                    return True
```



Page 447



```
    if arl_restriction.Type == AccessRestrictionTypeEnum.AttributeWriteForbidden and
    request_type == RequestTypeEnum.AttributeWrite:
        # if the attribute id is NULL (wildcard) or matches the cluster_element
        if arl_restriction.ID == NULL or arl_restriction.ID == cluster_element:
            # then no granted privileges
            return True

    if arl_restriction.Type == AccessRestrictionTypeEnum.CommandForbidden and
    request_type == RequestTypeEnum.CommandInvoke:
        # if the command id is NULL (wildcard) or matches the cluster_element
        if arl_restriction.ID == NULL or arl_restriction.ID == cluster_element:
            # then no granted privileges
            return True

    if arl_restriction.Type == AccessRestrictionTypeEnum.EventAccessForbidden and
    request_type == RequestTypeEnum.EventRead:
        # if the event id is NULL (wildcard) or matches the cluster_element
        if arl_restriction.ID == NULL or arl_restriction.ID == cluster_element:
            # then no granted privileges
            return True

    return false

def get_access_status(
    acl, arl_attr, commissioning_arl_attr,
    request_privilege, subject_desc, request_type, endpoint_id, cluster_id,
    cluster_element) -> access_status:
    granted_privileges = get_granted_privileges(acl, subject_desc, endpoint_id,
    cluster_id)

    if request_privilege in granted_privileges:
        # Select the correct source of ARL depending on context.
        arl = commissioning_arl_attr if subject_desc.IsCommissioning else arl_attr
        if is_request_restricted(arl, subject_desc, request_type, endpoint_id, cluster_id,
        cluster_element):
            return AccessStatusEnum.AccessRestricted
        else:
            return AccessStatusEnum.AccessGranted

    return AccessStatusEnum.AccessDenied
```

Page 448





### 6.6.6.3. Derivation of ISD from Incoming Message

The algorithm to derive the ISD from an incoming message takes as input:

- The incoming message (`message`)
- The Session ID of the incoming message (`session_id`)
- A conceptual Sessions Metadata database (`sessions_metadata`)
- The Group Key Management Cluster (`group_key_management_cluster`)

The output of the algorithm is the `SubjectDescriptor` structure below:

```
DEFAULT_COMMISSIONING_PASSCODE = 0

enum AuthModeEnum {
    None = 0, # conceptual "no auth" value
    PASE = 1,
    CASE = 2,
    Group = 3
}

struct SubjectDescriptor {
    bool IsCommissioning;
    AuthModeEnum AuthMode;
    list<SubjectID> Subjects; # max 3 items
    FabricIndex FabricIndex;
}
```

The algorithm SHALL function as follows:

```
def get_isd_from_message(message) -> SubjectDescriptor:
    isd = {
        IsCommissioning: False,
        AuthMode: AuthModeEnum.None,
        Subjects: [],
        FabricIndex: 0
    }

    session_id = message.get_session_id()

    if sessions_metadata.get_auth_mode(session_id) == AuthModeEnum.PASE:
        isd.AuthMode = AuthModeEnum.PASE
        isd.IsCommissioning = True
        isd.Subjects.append(DEFAULT_COMMISSIONING_PASSCODE)
```



Page 449



```

isd.FabricIndex = sessions_metadata.get_fabric_index(session_id) # may be zero
else if sessions_metadata.get_auth_mode(session_id) == AuthModeEnum.CASE:
    isd.IsCommissioning = sessions_metadata.get_fabric_index(session_id) ==
sessions_metadata.get_pending_fabric_index()
    isd.AuthMode = AuthModeEnum.CASE
    isd.Subjects.append(sessions_metadata.get_src_node_id(session_id))
    # CASE session may contain CATs which also serve as subjects
    # Append all CATs if present (can be up to 3)
    if sessions_metadata.has_src_case_authenticated_tags(session_id):

isd.Subjects.append(sessions_metadata.get_src_case_authenticated_tags(session_id))
    isd.FabricIndex = sessions_metadata.get_fabric_index(session_id)
    assert(isd.FabricIndex != 0) # cannot be zero
else if sessions_metadata.get_auth_mode(session_id) == AuthModeEnum.Group:
    # Message is assumed to have been decrypted and matched properly prior to
    # this procedure occurring.
    group_id = message.get_dst_group_id()
    group_key_id = sessions_metadata.get_group_key_id(message)
    # Group membership must be verified against Group Key Management Cluster
    if group_key_management_cluster.group_key_map_has_mapping(group_id, group_key_id):
        isd.AuthMode = AuthModeEnum.Group
        isd.Subjects.append(group_id)
        isd.FabricIndex = sessions_metadata.get_fabric_index(message)
        assert(isd.FabricIndex != 0) # cannot be zero
else:
    # Do nothing on error, ISD remains unchanged
    assert(isd.IsCommissioning == False)
    assert(isd.AuthMode == AuthModeEnum.None)
    assert(is_empty(isd.Subjects))
    assert(isd.FabricIndex == 0)

return isd

```

## 6.6.7. Applying Privileges to Action Paths

The Data Model specifies which privilege is required for each data element, via its access qualities.

The Interaction Model specifies how each action is processed, for both its request and its response. This includes details on how the Interaction Model uses Access Control to determine whether to allow the request (i.e. continue processing), or to deny the request (and whether/how that is indicated in the response).

Determining whether to allow or deny an action for a request path entails:

- Determining the [required privilege](#) for the action, given the action, request path and type of

Page 450





- access requested;
- Determining the [set of granted privileges](#) for the action, given the request path and requesting subject;
  - Checking whether the required privilege is present in the set of granted privileges:
    - If present, the action is allowed;
    - If not present, the action is denied.

Note that the Interaction Model may allow the action for some request paths while denying it for other request paths in the same action. Also, note that Access Control is merely one of the checks used by the Interaction Model, and an action that is allowed by Access Control may fail for other reasons.
