# Chapter 14. Transport Layer Security

## 14.1. Introduction

Transport Layer Security (TLS) is a cryptographic protocol designed to secure data transmission over computer networks and is widely used to ensure data privacy, integrity and authenticity. Matter TLS compatibility is intended to provide a mechanism for Application layers to use TLS to communicate securely with devices or servers outside the Matter Fabric.

Since TLS employs digital certificates to authenticate both the identity of servers and clients, this chapter discusses the provisioning of nodes with X.509 digital certificates, as well as the provisioning of nodes with other TLS endpoint information needed to facilitate TLS communication.

Nodes MAY choose to use TLS in other, non-Matter, contexts. Therefore in this chapter all references to Nodes supporting or using TLS, and the mechanisms defined to manage TLS connections, pertain only to the use of the TLS within Matter features that depend on it.

## 14.2. Common Conventions

The following conventions are used.

### 14.2.1. Transport Layer Security (TLS)

Nodes supporting TLS SHALL implement Versions 1.3 (as defined in RFC 8446) or later, and SHALL NOT support any earlier version. Matter’s use of TLS SHALL support only key exchange/cipher suites which provide Perfect Forward Security.

Since Matter TLS connections by their nature connect to services outside the Matter Fabric, TLS connections MAY utilize IPv4 transport. Ecosystems implementing Matter linked TLS services SHOULD therefore ensure their TLS services have both IPv6 and IPv4 connectivity.

### 14.2.2. TLS Certificates

TLS certificates used within this chapter SHALL be based on X.509v3-compliant certificates as defined in RFC 5280. TLS certificates used in this chapter SHALL be encoded using the Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER) format as defined in X.690.

#### 14.2.2.1. X.509 Certificate Fingerprint

An X.509 certificate fingerprint is created by applying a cryptographic hash function to the X.509 certificate’s binary data, enabling easy comparison and verification. X.509 certificate fingerprints used in this chapter SHALL be calculated by using the SHA-256 hash algorithm as defined in RFC 6234, using the DER (binary) encoding format of the certificate.

#### 14.2.2.2. Certificate Authority (CA)

A Certificate Authority (CA) is a trusted entity that issues digital certificates. These digital certificates are used in Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) to facilitate secure communication.

#### 14.2.2.3. TLS Root CA Certificate (TLSRCAC)

A TLS Root CA Certificate (TLSRCAC) is a special type of digital certificate that plays a fundamental role in the Public Key Infrastructure (PKI). It is the topmost certificate in the hierarchical structure of the certificate chain and holds the highest level of trust. TLS clients use TLSRCACs to authenticate a server during the handshake process, using the "Chain of Trust" described in RFC 4158.

#### 14.2.2.4. TLS Client Certificate

A TLS Client Certificate is a type of digital certificate used to authenticate clients during the TLS handshake. Use of client certificates in TLS is covered in RFC 8446 (or later).

#### 14.2.2.5. Certificate Signing Request (CSR)

A Certificate Signing Request (CSR) is used by an entity to request a CA to issue a digital certificate to that entity. The CSR contains information about the entity’s public key and MAY contain other relevant information. All CSRs in this chapter SHALL be created following the format and procedure in PKCS #10.

### 14.2.3. TLS Endpoint

A TLS Endpoint is a specific network address or hostname to which communication using TLS can be established as defined in RFC 8446 (or later), and thus represents a potential connection from the Node to another device. A TLS Endpoint can be either a TLS Client, which is the TLS Endpoint initiating the connection, or a TLS Server, which is the TLS Endpoint serving the requests from the TLS Client. In this chapter the Node is presumed to be the TLS Client, and the TLS Server is some other TLS Endpoint that the Node wishes to connect to.

In the context of this chapter, a TLS Endpoint is used to refer to the combination of a TLS Hostname and a TLS Port Number, along with certain other details, representing a TLS Server.

TLS Endpoints are managed by the TLS Client Management Cluster.

#### 14.2.3.1. TLS Hostname

A TLS Hostname SHALL be a domain name or IP Address. For cloud based TLS servers this MAY be a public resolvable DNS name. For local TLS servers on the same broadcast domain or locally reachable IP Addresses, this MAY be a multicast DNS based .local name, or other resolvable private name.

#### 14.2.3.2. TLS Port Number

A TLS Port Number is the network port designated for TLS connections. If a Port Number is omitted, the value of 443 SHALL be assumed.

### 14.2.4. TLS Connection

A TLS Connection is defined as a connection between two TLS Endpoints, one of which is the TLS client side and the other as the TLS server side. Establishment and usage of all TLS Connections uses the standard procedure defined in RFC 8446 (or later). A TLS Client Connection is defined as a TLS Connection where the Node is the TLS client side.